Control of diabetes (haemoglobin A1 concentration less than or equal to 10% and fasting plasma glucose concentration less than or equal to 6 mmol/l) or completion of six months on insulin treatment.
Between the two audits more practices (87% v 67%) had developed a policy on screening, and this was more likely to include the aim of performing regular smears on all sexually active women (98% v 80%).
In 1957, H1N1 subtype influenza had been displaced by H2N2 (Asian) subtype.
In 1968, H2N2 was displaced by H3N2 (Hong Kong) subtype.
During 1977, H1N1 influenza unexpectedly reappeared in Asia, and spread widely.
The resurgent strain, designated A/USSR/90/77(H1N1), caused world pandemics, attacking (almost exclusively) persons who had been born since the 1950-1951 northern winter and causing negligible mortality.
It did not displace the current H3N2 strain, and strains of both subtypes have continued to emerge independently.
Essentially to develop a programme of Health Instruction within Adult Education, in order to encourage Community Participation.
U.S. National Library of Medicine and Ontario Ministry of Health.
BACKGROUND AND HYPOTHESIS TESTED: The effects of adenosine (100 micrograms/kg/min; n = 7) were examined during rodent cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
The Lipid Research Clinics trial and the Helsinki Heart Study both aimed to reduce coronary heart disease mortality by a drug-induced reduction in serum cholesterol levels.
Each produced a significant reduction in coronary morbidity and mortality, of 20 and 30%, respectively, but failed to reduce total mortality significantly.
Moreover, an increase in violent death (accident or suicide) was reported by the Helsinki study.
Further, a significant increase in the cancer mortality rate has been observed in hypocholesterolemic subjects.
Controversy persists regarding the appropriate treatment of acute alkali injury to the esophagus.
The current study establishes a controlled model of alkali esophageal injury and examines the efficacy of saline dilution therapy.
Artificial nutrition was indicated because of severe weight loss (9-38 kg within 6-48 months, n = 7) or cerebral toxoplasmosis with eating and swallowing disorders (n = 7).
In all patients a defined formula diet (175 +/- 17.7 kJ/kg body weight) was administered through an endoscopically placed gastrostomy tube (PEG).
Home enteral nutrition was well tolerated by all patients and no significant PEG-related complications occurred.
The proteolytic enzyme elastase released by granulocytes (polymorphonuclear leukocytes [PMN]) in high concentrations during sepsis causes degradation of essential plasma proteins, endothelial damage, and tissue edema.
In vitro studies demonstrated a regulatory role of inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha], interleukin 1 beta [IL-1 beta], IL-8]) upregulating protease release by PMN.
In this light, the interactions between cytokine release by macrophages and altered elastase secretion during sepsis remain to be determined.
These guidelines were developed and endorsed by the Canadian task force, which is funded by Health Canada.
A growing body of literature suggests that coronary artery disease in males is treated differently from females.
erythritol, glucose, insulin, low energy sweetener.
Supported by grants from the UNDP/World Bank/World Health Organization Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases (no.
890245), the Ministre des Affaires Etrangeres, France, and from the Fundao de Amparo  Pesquisa do Estado de So Paulo (no.
92/1336-4).
M.A.C.
was supported by a doctoral fellowship from the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientfico e Tecnolgico.
Hepatic resection is prone to significant blood loss.
Adverse effects of blood loss and transfusion mandate improvements in surgical techniques to reduce blood loss and transfusion requirements.
Abnormal release of inflammatory mediators following surgical injury is associated with immunological alteration, which may predispose to sepsis.
Laparoscopic surgery is associated with reduced postoperative complications, but mechanisms are unclear.
We hypothesized that early recovery following laparoscopic surgery may relate to minimal impairment of immune function.
L-Arginine is the sole precursor of nitric oxide (NO).
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (endotoxin) (LPS) stimulates carrier-mediated L-arginine transport in porcine pulmonary artery endothelial cells (PAECs) through an autocrine pathway that involves interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha).
Currently available topical otic preparations contain a variety of antibiotics and other ingredients that are potentially damaging to the middle and inner ear.
There is therefore a need to identify agents that are safe as well as effective for topical otologic use.
Cisplatin is an effective chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN).
In the murine SCCVII/SF squamous cell carcinoma tumor model, IL-1 alpha induced acute hemorrhagic necrosis and increased clonogenic cell kill.
ODA (Overseas Development Agency), United Kingdom; CNPq (Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico), Brazil.
The initial assessment of penetrating injuries of the neck is controversial, with angiography remaining the gold standard for identifying vascular injuries.
Recent reports suggest that physical examination might be an accurate way to evaluate these injuries.
Color flow Doppler imaging has been used with promising results to assess extremity injuries, but the role of color flow Doppler imaging in neck injuries has not been studied.
If, during AV, the inflated lung expands partly via compression of the opposite lung, mean lung volume will be smaller during AV than SV.
In Sweden, large amounts of money are spent annually on natural remedies (NRs), in spite of the fact that most products in this category lack scientific documentation of their efficacy and side-effects.
The usage and users of natural remedies are not well defined.
This paper describes NR use and NR users in a city in southern Sweden, and tests the hypothesis that the use of natural remedies is a strategy for coping with psychosocial stressors.
Potential revisions and additions to this protocol had been announced in the prior publication.
This article focuses on those points of protocol which have been resolved as practical experience was gathered as well as additional modifications required by practical and scientific considerations.
The major alterations are based on exposure prevalences in controls and on power calculations.
The low (1.8%) exposure to gestodene among German controls led to the discontinuation of the German component and to the accelerated accession in additional countries.
In Saudi Arabia, such studies are, few.
Ethical issues in medical practice are increasing in number, diversity and complexity and posing professional diemmas for physicians.
BACKGROUND #ENTITYSTARTX00026;
Palmar dislocation of the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint of the long finger represents a rare event.
The first case was published by Mc Laughlin in 1965, and only nine other cases have been reported.
We present one more case and discuss the mechanisms of these dislocations and treatment.
The author presents a series of 114 cases of lumbo-sacral fusion with a minimum follow-up of 1 year and a mean of 21.7 months.Since the use of the first transpedicular screws (1963 R. Roy-Camille) spinal instrumentation has considerably eased post-operative care in lumbo-sacral fusion as well as fusion rate.
Recently, instrumentation has became more and more rigid.
But rigidity has it's limits.
Pain as well as poor bone grafting frequently occurs eventhough surgery was performed correctly.
This is why the author has developed a concept of flexible transpedicular instrumentation.
Some elements guided instrumentation design.
The system developed is based on transpedicular screws with 2.5 mm rods.
Stainless steel was prefered to Titanium because of it's flexibility.
65% of the patients are female.
We questioned the safety and feasibility of the interruption beyond 90 minutes in normothermic human beings.
Hysteroscopy has become a widely accepted technique in the diagnosis and treatment of various gynaecological conditions.
The advent of the fibreoptic endoscope and distending media has largely been responsible for the increasing use of hysteroscopy.
It is our aim in this article to review the literature on the frequently used distending media such as carbon dioxide, glycine, dextran, dextrose, sorbitol and mannitol and their anaesthetic implications.
Nutritional support is often delayed in patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) as a consequence of enteral intolerance and bowel hypomotility.
Stress-gene responses, including the heat shock (HS) response and the acute phase response, are protective mechanisms for cells after exposure to stress.
Both responses cannot occur simultaneously, and, in endothelial cells, the sequence of stress-gene expression seems to be a critical factor in whether cellular protection or injury occurs.
A laser technique has been developed in the laboratory using a noncontact 810-nm diode laser.
Microvascular thrombosis with intravascular fibrin deposition is a characteristic pathologic alteration during endotoxic shock.
This effect is predominantly mediated by expression of the cellular procoagulant tissue factor by endothelial cells and cells of monocyte or macrophage lineage, resulting in acceleration of the coagulation cascade and fibrin deposition.
Needle-exchange programmes as an intervention measure for injecting drug users were hotly debated and so were HIV (home) testing and counselling.
Successes in prevention were reported from Thailand and Uganda, and also from small scale programmes.
Patient satisfaction is a pre-requisite to successful clinical practice.
While an efficacious treatment is an important consideration, other variables are recognized to contribute to clinical satisfaction.
Enterobius vermicularis in an ectopic location usually represents an incidental finding in tissue specimens in a patient without symptoms.
However, the parasite can lead to inflammation and symptoms in rare cases.
Since the 1980s, there have been isolated reports of a toxic shock syndrome associated with Clostridium sordellii necrotizing subcutaneous infections during the puerperium.
Relatively localized fascial and muscle necrosis is noted at the surgical incision sites.
However, circulating toxins produce marked edema, resulting in shock and cardiovascular collapse.
Despite aggressive surgical and supportive therapy, all postpartum cases thus far have been fatal.
The association between tubo-ovarian abscess formation and the presence of an intrauterine device (IUD) is well recognized.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated nephropathy typically leads to endstage renal disease requiring dialysis within 3-4 months.
This report describes the prenatal course of a patient with HIV-associated nephropathy requiring dialysis during pregnancy.
Eczema herpeticum is an uncommon manifestation of an infection with herpes simplex virus (HSV).
Eczema herpeticum may be a life-threatening illness, but the mortality is felt to be &lt;10% with modern antiviral and antibacterial agents.
The use of acyclovir for other viral infections secondary to herpesvirus in pregnancy has been well documented.
Fusobacterium displays the ability to cause chorioamnionitis in the presence of intact amniotic membrane.
Increasing reports of intrauterine device (IUD)-related abdominopelvic actinomycosis have been described recently.
Surgical therapy has been the usual treatment when tubo-ovarian abscess is identified.
The isolation of this organism suggests an oral source of infection.
Pneumonia is the most common complication of varicella-zoster infection in adults and has potentially devastating effects when complicating pregnancy.
Drug-induced parkinsonism was related to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 drugs in 62, 30, 9, 1, 2 and 1 patients, respectively.
The most frequently offending drugs were: calcium-channel blockers (61 cases), antipsychotic drugs (29 cases), thiethylperazine (18 cases), clebopride (14 cases), and sulpiride (10 cases).
When compared with idiopathic Parkinson's disease patients, DIP patients were predominantly female and showed an older age at the onset of parkinsonian signs.
Parkinsonian signs only disappeared completely in 41 patients (39.0%).
The first multidimensional geriatric assessment has already been carried out.
We intend to reevaluate the sample every 2.5 years.
Previous studies produced mainly the relationship between the applied stress and the final cycles to failure (sigma-N(f)plots).
However, cyclic stressing increases the compliance of the bone continuously, and causes a progressive mechanical/structural degradation.
An HLA-DQ1 association has been suspected in patients who develop Propionibacterium acnes endophthalmitis following cataract surgery.
New techniques exist which may help to define this association.
Breast cancer is the commonest cancer in Saudi females.
Prognosis of stroke has been studied in various population.
Factors adversely affecting short term survival include impaired consciousness, leg weakness and increasing age.
Hemolytic-Uremic Syndrome (HUS) is a worldwide disease and a common cause of acute renal failure in childhood.
Tobacco consumption is now one of the most serious problems in the world and is receiving renewed attention in the current health promotion.
The problems of medical education in Saudi Arabia emanate from its high course content and a lack of proper integration, exacerbated by the language barrier.
The program started in Hail region during the year 1412H.
The objective of the program was to train all PHC staff, or at least a doctor and a nurse or a midwife in every health center, on Maternity and Child Health (MCH) services.
This objective was achieved at Hail region by the end of the year 1414H.
126 records were studied retrospectively.
The average age was 31.8 years (15-80 years) with 81% men which corresponds to other reports in the literature.
The fractures were in the middle third in 50.1% of cases, the lower third in 33.6% and the upper third in 11.4%.
4.9% of fractures were bifocal.
46% had additional injuries (34% multiple injuries, 8% head injury).
4% were true polytrauma cases.
Skin cover was by pedicle flap in 53, muscle flap 41 and fasciocutaneous flap in 12.
25 free flaps were done.
Nineteen of these were muscular or musculocutaneous, 3 osteocutaneous and cutaneous alone in 3 cases.
There was only one cross leg flap.
Eventual skin cover occurred by secondary intention in 45 cases.
Immediate bone grafting was done in 13.3% of cases between the 4th and 21st days, in 10% of cases and later in 15% of cases.
Five life-style questions, three religious questions, and patient demographic information were studied.
Results and conclusions were clear.
Persons who are married, above the poverty level, non-white, and male are more likely to use alcohol.
Smokers are more likely to be below the poverty line and non-white.
Finally, the relationship between religion and health risks seems minimal, possibly because of a selection bias.
Oxygenation index (OI)*: Mean Airway Pressure x FiO2 x 100/PaO2* Higher scores represent deterioration in oxygenation.
CLT = clinical laboratory technician; CLS = clinical laboratory scientist; CAHEA = Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation.
INDEX TERMS: Clinical laboratory technician students; clinical laboratory science students; education; attrition; retention.
This study developed a rabbit model of endotracheal tube-induced laryngeal injury to test the hypothesis that a corticosteroid, dexamethasone, could ameliorate the inflammation and necrosis.
The overview summarizes the central questions and themes emerging from commissioned papers, presentations, and group discussion of work in progress in a field in the midst of intense development.
Groups and interests represented by the presenters and participants included academic researchers, consumer advocates, librarians, information technologists, health care administrators, and agency and foundation officials.
Mouse/human chimeric antibody Z2D3 identifies an antigen produced exclusively by proliferating smooth muscle cells of human atheroma, and also cross reacts with experimentally induced atherosclerotic lesions in rabbits.
Fab' fragments of Z2D3 antibody were labeled with (99m)Tc using glucaric acid as a weak transchelator.
Program supported in part by ORSTROM, the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Secretary's Office of Health, Bolivia.
Arthritis and Rheumatism Council Project Grant R44.
Although recognition of chronic mesenteric ischemia has increased in recent years, this disorder has continued to present diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.
The molecule CD14 acts as a receptor for the protein-bound endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide [LPS]) complex and mediates the cellular effects of LPS.
The soluble formation, sCD14, is supposed to neutralize circulating LPS (i.e., LPS antagonist) or transfer LPS effects to endothelial cells (i.e., LPS agonist).
Data are captured prospectively, updated at each visit and audited every 3 to 6 months.
The expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) contributes to the systemic manifestations of sepsis.
Sepsis and endotoxemia are associated with increased mucosal production of complement component C3; the enterocyte may be a source of C3 in these conditions.
The majority of patients were in an institutional setting, such as a nursing home or hospital.
Ten trials compared one laxative agent with another.
Only one trial examined patients in an outpatient setting; the other trials were carried out in nursing homes or hospitals.
(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
An industrial scale reactor concept for continuous cultivation of immobilized animal cells (e.g.
hybridoma cells) in a radial-flow fixed bed is presented, where low molecular weight metabolites are removed via dialysis membrane and high molecular products (e.g.
monoclonal antibodies) are enriched.
In a new "nutrient-split" feeding strategy concentrated medium is fed directly to the fixed bed unit, whereas a buffer solution is used as dialysis fluid.
This feeding strategy was investigated in a laboratory scale reactor with hybridoma cells for production of monoclonal antibodies.
A steady state monoclonal antibody concentration of 478 mg l(-1) was reached, appr.
15 times more compared to the concentration reached in chemostat cultures with suspended cells.
Glucose and glutamine were used up to 98%.
The experiments were described successfully with a kinetic model for immobilized growing cells.
Conclusions were drawn for scale-up and design of the large scale system.
Transglutaminase treatment of amyloid -peptide (1-28) and amyloid -peptide (1-40) yielded cross-linked oligomers.
Transglutaminase-treated A retarded neurite extension of PC12 cells, and rat cultured neurons of hippocampus and septum, brain areas severely affected by Alzheimer disease, and subsequently caused cell death, whereas the transglutaminase-untreated counterparts did not show harmful effects.
The transglutaminase-catalyzed oligomers of amyloid -peptide and their neurotoxicity may be involved in two characteristics in Alzheimer disease, neuronal degeneration and formation of the insoluble deposits.
AD - Alzheimer disease, A - amyloid -peptide, DMEM - Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium, DMEM/F-12-1:1 mixture of DMEM and Ham's F-12 medium, FCS - fetal calf serum, HS - horse serum, PAGE - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, MTT - 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide, NGF - nerve growth factor, TGase - transglutaminase.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is endemic in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
The acquisition of infection occurs early in life.
The availability of safe and efficacious vaccines has led to the feasibility of an effective control of HBV infection.
Glanzmann's thrombasthenia is a rare inherited hemorrhagic disorder characterized by abnormal platelet function.
It usually presents with subcutaneous bleeding and bleeding from the mucous membranes.
Paroxetine increases serotonergic neurotransmission by inhibiting presynaptic reuptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) and thereby increasing the level of the neurotransmitter at the synaptic cleft.
In vitro, it is a more potent inhibitor of serotonin uptake than the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) Citalopram, fluvoxamine and fluoxetine.
In contrast to the tricyclic antidepressants, paroxetine has little effect on the uptake of dopamine or noradrenaline (norepinephrine) in vitro.
It has negligible affinity for r(1-), r(2-) and r-adrenoceptors, dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors, hi starnine H(1) receptors and serotonin 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors.
However, paroxetine does have weak affinity for muscarinic cholinergic receptors.
This may explain why the onset of therapeutic effect of paroxetine is delayed.
Various studies in healthy volunteers without sleep disorders or volunteers reporting poor sleep have indicated that paroxetine disturbs normal sleep patterns by reducing rapid eye movement (REM) sleep time and lengthening REM latency.
The anxiolytic activity of paroxetine has been demonstrated after 7 or 21 days' administration in several rodent models.
Paroxetine is well absorbed after oral administration.
It undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism and is rapidly distributed into tissue.
Only about 1% of the paroxetine dose remains in the systemic circulation.
Approximately 95% of paroxetine is protein bound in the plasma.
Steady-state concentrations are reached after 7 to 14 days of oral administration and the terminal elimination half-life (t1/2r) is approximately 24 hours.
However, there is a great deal of interindividual variation in the pharmacokinetics of paroxetine.
Paroxetine is metabolised by at least 2 enzymes of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system, one of which is CYP2D6.
This enzyme is subject to genetic polymorphism, and thus the pharmacokinetics of paroxetine differ between individuals who have the enzyme (extensive metabolisers) and those who do not (poor metabolisers).
The metabolites of paroxetine are essentially inactive.
Metabolism of paroxetine by CYP2D6 is saturable.
Approximately two-thirds of a paroxetine dose is eliminated in the urine and the remainder is excreted in faeces.
Almost all of the dose is eliminated as metabolites; lt3% is excreted as unchanged drug.
Paroxetine distributes into breast milk to produce concentrations similar to those in plasma.
An extension phase of one of the placebo-controlled studies showed that the efficacy of paroxetine in reducing panic attack frequency is maintained during up to 6 months' treatment and that the drug reduces the risk of relapse.
Oral paroxetine 10 to 60 mg/day was at least as effective as clomipramine 10 to 150 mg/day in a comparative study.
During weeks 7 to 9 of treatment, 51% of paroxetine recipients had no full panic attacks, compared with 37% of clomipramine recipients.
The onset of action appeared to be more rapid for paroxetine than for clomipramine.
The 2 drugs were equally effective in improving generalised anxiety, phobic avoidance and social, family and work interactions.
During weeks 34 to 36 of extended treatment, 85% of paroxetine recipients, 72% of clomipramine recipients and 59% of placebo recipients had no panic attacks.
Paroxetine is generally well tolerated by both younger and older individuals and its adverse event profile is consistent with that expected for an SSRI.
(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Olestra, a nonabsorbable, energy-free fat substitute used in snack foods, has been anecdotally reported to cause gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events, although such effects were not expected based on results from randomized trials, in which it was consumed in typical snack patterns.
The spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria is associated with antibiotic use.
We performed a randomized, double-blind, double-sham clinical trial comparing the exact microbial effects of each treatment.
Recent epidemiologic studies have raised the concern that calcium channel blocker use may increase the risk of cancer overall and of several specific cancers.
The sex ratio of 1.06:1, the ratio of male to female births, has declined over the past decades.
Standard CPR relies on the natural elastic recoil of the chest to transiently decrease intrathoracic pressures and thereby promote venous blood return to the heart.
To further enhance the negative intrathoracic pressures during the "relaxation" phase of CPR, we tested the hypothesis that intermittent impedance to inspiratory gases during standard CPR increases coronary perfusion pressures and vital organ perfusion.
Microsatellite instability (MI) and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) are described in lung cancer specimens.
However, their importance in tumorigenesis remains unknown.
The aim of this study was to identify the presence of MI and LOH in human tumor and normal bronchial mucosa DNA.
Although criteria justifying authorship of scientific medical articles have been formulated, it is not well known how authorship is established in practice.
Little is known about the hierarchical order of authorship and its change over time.
Authorship in biomedical publications establishes accountability, responsibility, and credit.
Misappropriation of authorship undermines the integrity of the authorship system, but accurate data on its prevalence are limited.
Biomedical manuscripts undergo substantive change as a result of the peer review and editorial revision processes.
A reliable method of rating them (for education and monitoring) is needed.
Selecting peer reviewers who will provide high-quality reviews is a central task of editors of biomedical journals.
Reviewers increasingly are asked to review manuscripts from outside their own country, but whether they are more likely to recommend acceptance of such manuscripts is not known.
It is not known whether peer review of research abstracts submitted to scientific meetings influences subsequent attempts at publication.
Editors, authors, and reviewers are influential in shaping science.
The performance of women as editors, authors, and reviewers in epidemiology has not been previously studied.
Many journals provide peer reviewers with written instructions regarding review criteria, such as the originality of results, but little research has been done to investigate ways to improve or facilitate the peer review task.
Editorial management of articles on health economics may benefit from guidelines for peer review and revision.
Review articles are important sources of information to help guide decisions by clinicians, patients, and other decision makers.
Ideally, reviews should include strategies to minimize bias and to maximize precision and be reported so explicitly that any interested reader would be able to replicate them.
One of these recommendations is that the trial's results be discussed in light of the totality of the available evidence.
The majority of the peer-reviewed clinical literature is edited by editors whose training in editorial matters may be limited or nonexistent.
Journal editors are responsible to many publics, and their choices of articles to publish are a frequent source of dispute.
It has been suggested that early announcements of research works to be published in peer-reviewed journals may diminish newsworthiness of scientific articles, but this issue has not been widely studied.
Scientific journals issue press releases to disseminate scientific news about articles they publish.
This study examined the impact of retracted articles on biomedical communication.
There is little information regarding full polysomnographic examination of infants for the evaluation of stridor or stertor.
The Danish Medical Birth Registry (MBR) was established in 1968 and has been computerized since 1973.
Low-potassium (LP) solution with Dextran (Dx) improves lung preservation.
Nevertheless, the role of Dx in simple cold storage is not established yet.
This study was designed to investigate the relationship between molecular weight and concentration of Dx in LP solutions and its effects on cell viability after prolonged hypothermic preservation.
Acute partial lesion of the rat optic nerve, although not a model for glaucoma, mimics some of the features of the disease.
This approach is demanding for the patient and has not been proved to be better than esophagectomy alone.
Patient 1 ingested model airplane fuel on two separate occasions; the second patient had dermal exposure from clothing saturated with fuel in a drag racing accident.
After the exposure, both patients had unusually elevated serum creatinine concentrations.
Effective physician-patient communication has been correlated with patient satisfaction and improved outcome.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a disease with an overwhelmingly poor prognosis that requires a complex level of communication and emotional support.
Since the treatment of PC is often surgical, surgeons play a central role in the care of these patients.
Many computer software developers and vendors claim that their systems can directly improve clinical decisions.
As for other health care interventions, such claims should be based on careful trials that assess their effects on clinical performance and, preferably, patient outcomes.
Approximately 150 researchers, clinicians, purchasers, and representatives of accreditation bodies and government agencies attended.
We report mid-term results after 25 consecutive lung volume reduction operations (LVRS) for the treatment of severe dyspnea due to advanced emphysema.
Mizolastine is a second generation antihistamine agent with high affinity and specificity for histamine H(1) receptors.
Mizolastine has demonstrated antiallergic effects in animals and healthy volunteers and anti-inflammatory activity in animal models.
Mizolastine 10 mg/day is generally well tolerated, with the most common adverse events being drowsiness (7%), fatigue (2%), increased appetite (2%) and dry mouth (2%).
Recombinant hepatitis B vaccine Engerix B((R)) [Hep-B(Eng)] is a noninfectious subunit hepatitis B viral vaccine indicated for the active immunisation of adults, children and infants against hepatitis B virus infection.
It contains hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) which is produced by the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae by use of recombinant DNA technology.
In adults and children seroprotection rates [anti-HBsAg antibody (anti-HBs) titres &gt;or=10 IU/L] were 93 to 100% 1 month after completion of the immunisation schedule with Hep-B(Eng) [0, 1, 6-month schedule].
A more rapid immunological response has been reported with accelerated Hep-B(Eng) immunisation schedules, such as the 0, 1, 2, 12-month schedule.
Hep-B(Eng) produces seroprotection rates similar to those achieved with the plasma-derived vaccines and the recombinant hepatitis B vaccine, Recombivax-HB((R)) [Hep-B(Rax)] when administered at recommended doses.
In studies in Taiwanese and Thai neonates born to hepatitis B carrier mothers, seroprotection rates were &gt;or=94% 12 months after immunisation with Hep-B(Eng) [+/- hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG)] and protective efficacy was high, with &lt;or=4% of neonates becoming chronic hepatitis B carriers.
Similarly, among 119 homosexual men, none had any markers of hepatitis B infection 1 month after completion of immunisation with Hep-B(Eng).
Moreover, it is currently unclear whether vaccinees require booster doses or whether, on exposure to the virus, natural boosting occurs when anti-HBs titres fall below the protective level (&lt;10 IU/L).
Long term follow-up studies should clarify this issue.
Hep-B(Eng) is generally well tolerated with a tolerability profile similar to that of Hep-B(Rax) and plasma-derived vaccines.
Mild soreness at the injection site is the most common adverse event associated with Hep-B(Eng).
Oprelvekin is a recombinant human interleukin-11.
Its predominant haemopoietic activity is stimulation of megakaryocytopoiesis.
It is the first available pharmacological alternative to platelet transfusions for these patients.
Oprelvekin stimulates platelet progenitor cells (megakaryoblasts and colony-forming unit megakaryocytes).
The drug also increases megakaryocyte size and ploidy.
The efficacy of oprelvekin is unaffected by previous platelet transfusion requirements and/or chemotherapy.
The most common adverse events with this agent (oedema and dyspnoea) are considered attributable to drug-induced fluid retention and increased plasma volume; these events are usually mild to moderate, reversible on drug discontinuation and dose related.
Cardiovascular events including atrial arrhythmias are also considered attributable to increased plasma volume.
Lepirudin is a recombinant hirudin derived from transfected yeast cells.
The hirudins are direct thrombin inhibitors which render the thrombin molecule incapable of promoting fibrin formation and catalysing other haemostatic reactions.
In initial studies, parenteral lepirudin has shown promising efficacy as an antithrombotic agent.
However, additional studies involving larger patient numbers are necessary before firm conclusions can be made regarding the relative efficacy of lepirudin in these indications.
Infliximab is a chimaeric monoclonal antibody which binds to and inhibits the activity of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), a cytokine which is involved in the development of both Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis.
Following a single infusion, symptom recurrence was evident after 6 to 12 weeks, but subsequent infusions re-established a clinical response.
Concurrent methotrexate appeared to prolong the effects of infliximab in this patient group.
Anti-infliximab and anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies developed in some patients, particularly those who received multiple infusions of infliximab.
Acute adverse events consistent with hypersensitivity occurred in some patients who received multiple infusions of infliximab.
Infection occurred slightly more frequently with infliximab than with placebo.
This review focuses on Rebif, one of 2 available formulations of recombinant interferon-beta-1a, a molecule with the same molecular weight and primary structure as native interferon-beta.
This molecule has the same antiviral, antiproliferative and immunomodulatory profile as native interferon-beta.
Further studies of long term (&gt;2 years) clinical efficacy, tolerability, and pharmacoeconomic aspects are required.
Although injection site disorders and alterations in liver enzymes and lymphopenia are common, they rarely lead to withdrawal from treatment.
As with other interferons, an influenza-like syndrome is often seen in patients receiving interferon-beta-1a.
This formulation is available as powder for reconstitution, or in liquid-prefilled syringes or an autoinjector device.
Follitropin alpha (recombinant human follicle-stimulating hormone; follitropin alfa) is a recombinant form of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), an endogenous gonadotrophin.
Unlike FSH products derived from urine [menotropins (human menopausal gonadotrophins), urofollitropin and highly purified urofollitropin], follitropin alpha is readily available and shows batch-to-batch consistency.
As well, it is free of luteinising hormone (LH) activity and contaminant urinary proteins and can be self-administered subcutaneously.
In women undergoing in vitro fertilisation-embryo transfer (IVF-ET), follitropin alpha appears to have a greater stimulatory effect on follicular development than urine-derived FSH products as a group.
In direct comparisons it had similar effects to urofollitropin but produced more oocytes per stimulated cycle than highly purified urofollitropin and menotropins.
Tolerability has not differed between follitropin alpha and other FSH products.
headache, nausea, ovarian cyst), local irritations at injection site and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome resembled those for comparator FSH products.
However, it appears that follitropin alpha can be tolerated in instances of severe allergic reaction to urine-derived products.
Cladribine is a deaminase-resistant deoxyadenosine analogue that selectively reduces lymphocyte counts.
With activity against resting and dividing cells that express high deoxycytidine kinase activity, cladribine causes prolonged, profound suppression of lymphocyte counts.
Subcutaneous cladribine is 100% bioavailable and has no local tissue toxicity.
In both studies, marked improvements were seen in gadolinium-enhanced CNS lesions.
Although thrombocytopenia is of concern with higher-dose regimens (i.e.
We performed an analysis to determine whether multithoracoport VAT under local anesthesia (LA) is feasible.
Purpose.
The burden on hospitals to provide information has been increasing.
This study examined the demands of surgeons and patients using a pamphlet explaining breast cancer operation procedures.
The causes and pathologic and prognostic phenotypes of late-onset familial breast cancers are still unknown.
Cystosarcoma phyllodes (CP) is a rare neoplasm of the breast.
Many studies of the histology of CP have been reported.
We report a case of rapidly growing fibroadenoma.
Blood loss is minimal when the targeted area is infiltrated with large volumes of dilute lidocaine and epinephrine.
However, little quantitative data are available regarding the intraoperative blood loss and postoperative hemoglobin drop.
The knowledge of the importance, the physiopathological mechanisms, and the management of the chemotherapy-induced emesis has increased exponentially during the last 20 years.
High-dosage metoclopramide (MCP) therapy has been introduced in the eighties and serotonine type-3 receptor antagonists (5-HT(3) antagonists) have been used since the late eighties and early nineties.
Further therapy improvements, especially concerning emesis and nausea on the days following chemotherapy, are necessary and are currently object of clinical research.
Niemann-Pick type C (NP-C) disease exhibits marked heterogeneity in its phenotype.
This can pose diagnostic dilemmas and even delayed recognition of this condition.
Ensuing from the analysis are the main principles of the surgical technique.
Traumatic ruptures of the biceps tendon are rare, but serious, and usually involve the long head of the proximal insertion.
Ruptures of the distal tendon account for only 3% of all biceps tendon ruptures.
Hematomas tend to resolve with conservative management.
However, untreated testicular injuries may have serious ramifications, including ischemic atrophy, necrosis, and secondary infection.
Exploratory surgery remains the standard for any acute scrotal lesion that cannot be diagnosed by physical examination or by diagnostic testing.
Surgical exploration, however, is unnecessary in cases of scrotal hematoma.
When planning a study, the researcher must clearly define the research problem and narrow it down to specific, testable questions.
The next steps are to identify the variables in the study, decide how to group and treat subjects, and determine how to measure, and the underlying level of measurement of, the dependent variables.
Professional knowledge can quickly become outdated, and the personal/professional contexts of allied medical fields such as athletic training are becoming increasingly more complex, making continuing education paramount.
Unfortunately, mandating continuing education may violate the voluntary nature of adult learning, making the practice questionable.
Therefore, alternative aspects of continuing education may be helpful.
Despite wide promulgation, clinical practice guidelines have had limited effect on changing physician behavior.
Vitamin A reduces the pathophysiological effects of endotoxin in animals, but the mechanism and the lowest effective dose are not clear.
The therapeutic problems of giant incisional hernias of the abdominal wall are often difficult to resolve.
The technique of repair must make up for the loss of abdominal wall substance and reestablish the interplay of the abdominal musculature.
The use of prosthetic materials complies with these 2 imperatives.
Ministry of Public Health, Welfare and Sports of the Netherlands and the National Institute of Public Health and the Environment.
This study was supported by grants from the Danish Diabetes Association, Institute of Clinical Experimental Research, Aarhus University, The Danish Heart Foundation, The Danish Medical Research Council, Velux Foundation, Poul and Erna Sehested Hansens Foundation, Mogens Svarre Mogensens Foundation.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a major infection with nearly eight million cases annually worldwide.
Although the majority of these cases are in the developing world, TB is also a problem in Canada.
Hereditary diseases form an omnibus problem in Arab societies in general and in rural Arab societies in particular.
Computer-based diagnostic decision support systems (DSSs) were developed to improve health care quality by providing accurate, useful, and timely diagnostic information to clinicians.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF; vascular permeability factor) is one of the most potent proangiogenic cytokines, and it plays a central role in mediating the process of angiogenesis or new blood vessel formation.
Neutrophils (PMNs) recently have been shown to produce VEGF.
The performance of each ICU needs to be assessed within the overall context of medical care, as well as by the institution which the ICU forms part of.
Evaluation mechanisms in the field of intensive care have been developed that are recognized worldwide within the scientific literature.
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
A 1 cm aortic segment was obtained from the thoracic aorta of a rabbit and cryopreserved or stored at +4 degrees C. The aortic segment, surrounded by a ringed expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) prosthesis was used to replace 1 cm of cervical trachea in two groups of rabbits, either with cryopreserved or fresh aorta.
Only a few studies have been published concerning hospitalised elderly disabled people.
Etiology of trauma in the female population differs from that of the male population.
To date, domestic violence has been researched extensively, but little has been published about the epidemiology of facial injury in the female population.
Infusions of leukocytes obtained from the original bone marrow donor is a new approach for treating patients who have a relapse of leukemia after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
Up to 90% of patients who achieved remission developed graft-vs-host disease (GVHD).
However, any description of the clinical and histologic features in these cases is lacking.
We have previously shown that a major cutaneous thermal injury produces profound cardiac contractile dysfunction despite adequate resuscitation.
While the molecular basis of this dysfunction is unknown, recent work has suggested that alterations in calcium flux between the myocyte sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) to the cytoplasm may play a role.
Protection of vascular endothelium is a critical factor in organ preservation for transplantation.
Parvovirus B19 infection during pregnancy has been associated with fetal death.
The model depicts the relationship between the steps in diagnosis and management of UTI.
Age and other clinical features define a prevalence or a prior probability of UTI, determining whether the diagnosis should be pursued.
Phase 2 depicts the diagnosis of UTI.
Alternative diagnostic strategies may be characterized by their cost, sensitivity, and specificity.
The result of testing is the division of patients into groups according to a relatively higher or lower probability of having a UTI.
In this way, the usefulness of a diagnostic test depends on the prior probability of UTI established in Phase 1.
Phase 3 represents the short-term treatment of UTI.
Alternatives for treatment of UTI may be compared, based on their likelihood of clearing the initial UTI.
Prophylactic antibiotic therapy or surgical procedures such as ureteral reimplantation may prevent progressive renal damage.
Therefore, identifying urinary abnormalities may offer the benefit of preventing hypertension and renal failure.
The full analysis of these data can be found in the technical report.
(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
The functions of membranes may differ, however, depending on the size and the location of the defect and on the experimental species used.
Bone defects larger than the critical size may not heal at all, even if membranes are used.
The critical-size defect is defined as the smallest bone defect that does not heal spontaneously when covered with polymeric membranes.
If bone graft is used to fill the defect, the structure and geometry of the covering membrane will determine whether the graft will be vascularized and/or nourished from the surrounding soft tissue and, in consequence, survive.
It can be appreciated that bone healing in areas of good vascularity should be more efficient than bone healing in poorly vascularized areas.
Villous adenoma of the ampulla is considered a premalignant lesion.
Local excision has been recommended for benign adenoma and pancreatoduodenectomy for malignant lesions.
Which drug is most effective as a first-line treatment for stable angina is not known.
The use of the portfolios of critical incidents and the completion of learning cycles with application to practice provided evidence of the effectiveness of such learning.
Tracheal smooth muscle from guinea pigs.
Mongrel dogs.
The tension of isolated guinea pig tracheal strips was measured isometrically with a force displacement transducer.
The specimen was contracted with histamine (10 microM).
Bronchoconstriction was elicited with histamine (10 microg/kg plus 500 microg/kg/hr iv).
Arterial blood was also obtained to measure plasma levels of epinephrine and norepinephrine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
MgSO4 and ZnSO4 (9.38+/-0.28 and 1.84+/-0.30 mM, respectively) relaxed histamine-contracted tracheal strip in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas Na2SO4 did not.
Similarly, the in vivo study showed that MgSO4 and ZnSO4 dose-dependently reversed histamine-induced bronchoconstriction (potency, ZnSO4 &gt; MgSO4), whereas Na2SO4 did not.
In groups Mg and Zn, the plasma catecholamine levels also dose-dependently increased except when 1000 micromol/kg MgSO4 was administered.
Echocardiography is the second most common cardiac diagnostic procedure.
Surveillance is a key component of the core public health function of health assessment.
Plenary session speaker David H. Gustafson, PhD, emphasized four key themes in his discussion of breakthrough improvement and service-focus on customers, innovation through information technology, an empirical methodology for predicting success, and leadership.
Donald M. Berwick, MD, argued that it is better to treat the consumer not as an inspector but as an integral element in the total system of health care.
In the closing plenary session, John Stone, MD, stated that although physicians like to think of themselves as teachers, it is the patients who teach them with the stories they bring.
"Listen to the patient," he concluded.
"The patient is telling you the diagnosis."
Health care researchers and professionals, representing a wide variety of settings and patient conditions, reported in breakout sessions on their practical experiences using patient-generated data on quality and strategies for improving care.
Several presenters described their practical experience using patient-centered measures as part of a coordinated approach to systemwide improvement.
Because most trials using aspirin to reduce TxA2 production have failed to prevent preeclampsia, it is critical to determine whether eicosanoid changes occur before the onset of clinical disease or are secondary to clinical manifestations of preeclampsia.
In the Group I cohort, the 2-year cumulative death rate from all causes was 16.9% [95% CI: 11.7%-22.
1%].
The 1- and 2-year mortality rates after the diagnosis of CHF (Kaplan-Meier estimates) were 69% and 100%, respectively.
In the Group II cohort, the 2-year cumulative death rate from all causes was 16.3% [95% CI: 8.8%-23.9%] in the HIV-infected children compared with no deaths among the 463 uninfected Group II children.
The 2-year mortality rate after the
Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita is an acquired inflammatory and/or dermolytic subepidermal blistering disease characterized by IgG autoantibodies to type VII collagen.
Patients were evaluated clinically and by slitlamp examinations, endoscopies, computed tomographic scans, and videofluorographic swallowing studies.
Hemodynamic instability was defined as the presence of any of the following: ischemic chest pain, dyspnea, syncope, altered mental status, and systolic blood pressure less than 90 mmHg.
Bradycardia was defined as sinus bradycardia, junctional bradycardia, or idioventricular bradycardia (grouped as bradycardia) while AVB included first-, second- (types I and II), or third-degree (grouped as AVB).
With conventional medicine becoming increasingly expensive, depersonalized, and unable to adequately meet such needs, many with chronic conditions are seeking health promotion strategies to effectively manage their symptoms.
Renal allograft biopsies have been used as a good method for monitoring the evolution of kidney transplants for at least 20 years.
There is a renewed interest in thalidomide therapy after its surprising effectiveness in treating erythema nodosum leprosum was first published.
Health plans competing in a managed care system may face serious financial consequences if they are disproportionately selected by enrollees with expensive health conditions.
Pancreatic adenocarcinomas are among the most aggressive types of cancer with an extremely poor diagnosis.
Transforming Growth Factor (TGF)-beta and Interleukin (IL)-10 are potent immunomodulators that have been shown to suppress several aspects of the immune response.
Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is a powerful angiogenic factor, recently thought to be involved in neoangiogenesis and metastasis spreading.
This study was conducted to determine the possible significance of TGF-beta1, IL-10 and VEGF as markers for monitoring the clinical course of pancreatic adenocarcinoma patients.
The aim of the research is to identify patients who need a different therapeutic approach and the best management of their disease.
Self-expanding metal stents are a new alternative for palliation of esophagocardial malignancies.
HCV-related hepatitis is a pathology on the increase, and it is especially affecting patients above 60 years old.
The only treatment for this disease is therapy with different types of interferon.
Alpha-glutathione S-transferases (alpha-GST) are the ''basic'' class of a large family of enzymes, ubiquitarly distributed in the cells, particularly in the hepatocytes.
Their principal biological function is the detoxification of the cells by conjugating glutathione with various electrophiles and hydroperoxides.
Intestinal permeability can be investigated by means of molecular probes which are able to cross the intestinal wall through tight junctions of villi (smaller probes) and/or of crypts (larger probes).
Intestinal permeability is altered in the majority of uncomplicated diabetes mellitus type 1 patients, due to the augmented absorption of the smaller probe.
The aim of this work was to investigate if any similar alteration of intestinal permeability is present in diabetes mellitus type 2.
Obesity is often associated with cardiovascular pathology.
Cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death are reported for obese subjects during severe caloric restriction and weight loss.
This is probably due to a delayed cardiac repolarization and prolongation of heart rate corrected electrocardiographic QT interval (QTc).
Hepatitis B remains a crucial Public Health problem worldwide, with a numerical impact of infected persons and long term sequences higher than other infectious diseases preventable by vaccines.
Newly infected adults generally clear the infection and only about 5% become chronic carriers of the virus.
Infected children rarely develop clinical disease but 25-90% become chronic carriers.
Over two billions of persons worldwide have been infected in their life and 350 millions are chronic carriers of HBV.
About 25% of the chronic carriers will die of cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma.
In recent years control of the spread of HBV has been achieved by the large-scale availability of safe and effective vaccines.
This review summarizes the current perspective and use of hepatitis B vaccination, with particular attention to implementation needs and results in Italy, the first country that has introduced universal vaccination against hepatitis B.
To evaluate the role of the endoscopic treatment of biliary fistulas after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Esophageal carcinoma is frequently diagnosed at an advanced stage.
Therefore for most patients either surgical or endoscopic palliation with or without radiochemotherapy may be taken into consideration.
The audible release or cracking sound associated with spinal manipulation is familiar to practitioners of spinal manipulative therapy.
Furthermore, some authors believe the articular crack to be at least in part responsible for the therapeutic benefits derived from spinal manipulative therapy.
Sermorelin, a 29 amino acid analogue of human growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH), is the shortest synthetic peptide with full biological activity of GHRH.
Intravenous and subcutaneous sermorelin specifically stimulate growth hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary.
Hormone responses to intravenous sermorelin 1 microg/kg bodyweight appear to be a rapid and relatively specific test for the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency.
Sermorelin induced catch-up growth in the majority of growth hormone-deficient children.
The effect of long term treatment with once daily subcutaneous sermorelin 30 microg/kg bodyweight on final adult height is yet to be determined.
However, increases in height velocity from baseline values with subcutaneous sermorelin 30 microg/kg bodyweight per day, given as continuous infusion or as 3 divided doses, were less than those in children receiving once daily subcutaneous somatropin 30 microg/kg bodyweight.
Transient facial flushing and pain at injection site were the most commonly reported adverse events.
As an antimetabolite immunosuppressant, mycophenolate mofetil has been evaluated for the prevention and treatment of acute rejection of a variety of solid organ allografts.
Whereas patient and graft survival rates are improved with mycophenolate mofetil in cardiac transplantation, significant benefits for patient or graft survival have not been demonstrated in clinical trials in renal transplant patients.
Mycophenolate mofetil has been shown to reverse ongoing acute rejection episodes in heart, kidney and liver transplant patients, and to improve graft function when used to treat chronic lung or heart graft vasculopathy.
Lower dosages (2 g/day) are generally better tolerated than higher dosages (3 g/day).
Previous studies have documented substantial variation in physician prescribing practices for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia.
The majority of menstrual toxic shock syndrome (MTSS) cases are caused by a single clone of Staphylococcus aureus that produces both toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 (TSST-1) and staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA).
Mass media are very important in health education programmes.
Health promoters rely on them to play a crucial role in their campaign.
Hemorrhagic shock is known to produce immunodepression in both humans and experimental animals.
Although studies suggest that endogenous opioids play a role in immune regulation in adverse circulatory conditions, it remains controversial whether these opioids exert beneficial or detrimental effects on immunity after shock.
Moreover, little information is available concerning the effects of opioid receptor blockade using naloxone on cell-mediated immunity and endocrine responses after shock.
Androstenedione, a steroid hormone and the major precursor to testosterone, is available without prescription and is purported to increase strength and athletic performance.
The hormonal effects of androstenedione, however, are unknown.
Nestec Ltd, Switzerland.
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 120-125
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 143-149
This work was supported by a grant from the European Union (contract no.
TS3*CT92-0142) and by the Conseil Rgional d'Ile de France and INSERM.
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 150-154
The Institute of European Food Studies, a non-profit research organization based in Trinity College Dublin.
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 166-173
Danish Cancer Society and the Danish National Board of Health.
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 174-176
Italian Association for Cancer Research, Milan, Italy.
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 177-179
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 14-19
Program supported by IRD.
European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2000) 54, 29-35
The Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zrich, the Foundation for Micronutrients in Medicine, Rapperswil, Switzerland, and the Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, USA.
This study was supported by the Foundation of Pediatric Research, Helsinki, Finland and the Nona and Kullervo Vre Foundation, Helsinki, Finland.
F Hoffman-La Roche (Basel, Switzerland) and Friesland Dairy Foods (Leeuwarden, The Netherlands).
Financial support for this project was provided by the New Zealand Dairy Board.
A previous report of 5,782 trauma patients demonstrated higher mortality among those transported by emergency medical services (EMS) than among their non-EMS-transported counterparts.
MD Foods A/S, Denmark.
This study was supported by grants from the Swedish Medical Research Council (K98-274-06276-17) King Gustav V and Queen Victoria's Foundation, and the Gteborg University.
This work has been financially supported by a grant of Ministero dell'Universit e della Ricerca Scientifica e Tecnologica.
One goal of wound healing research is to discover agents to accelerate healing.
Regulatory agencies have suggested stringent criteria to determine efficacy, that of 100% wound closure.
Data analysis at a single point such as 100% closure does not provide detailed information about agent effectiveness over the entire span of healing.
Unrestricted research grant in nutrition from the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation.
The Swiss Foundation for Nutrition Research, Zrich, Switzerland.
Dutch Foundation for Alcohol Research (SAR).
This research was supported (in part) by a grant from the Health Research Council of New Zealand.
The effectiveness of surfactant (SURF) treatment in acute lung injury in the adult is controversial.
In this study, we tested the effectiveness of early surfactant treatment in a commonly used animal model of acute lung injury, phorbol-myristate acetate (PMA), to see if it would attenuate the progression of lung injury.
We measured the effect on lung compliance and whether positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) (10 cm H2O) during SURF administration had a synergistic effect.
Internal medicine residency training is demanding and residents can experience a wide variety of professional and personal difficulties.
A problem resident is defined by the American Board of Internal Medicine as "a trainee who demonstrates a significant enough problem that requires intervention by someone of authority."
Data are sparse regarding identification and management of such residents.
Tools to assess the evolving conceptual framework of physicians-in-training are limited, despite their critical importance to physicians' evolving clinical expertise.
Concept mapping assessment (CMA) enables teachers to view students' organization of their knowledge at various points in training.
Raisio Group, Raisio, Finland.
European Union shared cost project (FAIR-CT-95-0085).
Any sentinel lymph node that receives lymph drainage directly from a primary melanoma site, regardless of its location, may contain metastatic disease.
This is true even if the sentinel node does not lie in a recognized node field.
Interval (in-transit) nodes that lie along the course of a lymphatic vessel between a primary melanoma site and a recognized node field are sometimes seen during lymphatic mapping for sentinel node biopsy.
Clinicopathologic features include the development of dense keloidlike breast masses that are often recurrent or bilateral or both.
Clinical distinction from a malignancy can be difficult.
The shift to Medicaid managed care has raised numerous concerns about access to publicly funded substance abuse treatment.
The implementation of a capitated chemical dependency benefit within the Oregon Health Plan in 1995 provided an opportunity to study the impact of funding mechanisms on access.
Nerve growth factor is a neurotrophic factor that promotes the survival of small fiber sensory neurons and sympathetic neurons in the peripheral nervous system.
Recombinant human nerve growth factor (rhNGF) has demonstrated efficacy as treatment for peripheral neuropathy in experimental models and phase 2 clinical trials.
This population is classified as having stage IV disease by the current AJCC staging system, which carries a dismal prognosis (5%-18% 5-year survival).
Our clinical observation was that these patients had a higher survival rate than would be expected for stage IV disease.
The role of surgical resection for hepatocellular carcinoma with tumor thrombi involving the major portal vein is controversial because of a high operative risk and poor prognosis.
Financial support was provided by the New Zealand Dairy Board.
Discontinuation of donepezil and sertraline therapy with subsequent improvement evidenced by liver biopsy and liver function tests.
Hyperlactatemia is a prominent feature of cardiogenic shock.
It can be attributed to increased tissue production of lactate related to dysoxia and to impaired utilization of lactate caused by liver and tissue underperfusion.
The aim of this prospective observational study was to determine the relative importance of these mechanisms during cardiogenic shock.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats.
We describe a patient with alcohol-induced pancreatitis who developed severe life-threatening hypophosphatemia of multifactorial origin during hospitalization.
Heart failure (HF) is a devastating cardiovascular syndrome affecting more than 4.6 million Americans and resulting in a substantial economic burden.
It is the number one cause of hospitalization in the older population.
Because there is no cure for this costly disease, goals of therapy include; slowing progression, increasing patient survival, minimizing symptoms, improving patient functional capacity, and decreasing ER visits, hospital admissions, and readmissions.
Studies have shown ACE inhibitors (ACEIs) to be extremely beneficial in reaching these goals.
Therefore, a national long-term care pharmaceutical provider has committed to the development of a HF disease management program, which has been implemented through a collaborative partnership between medicine, nursing, and pharmacy.
Extubation failure can result from poor respiratory drive, impaired respiratory muscle function, or excessive inspiratory load.
Measurement of airway pressure changes either during tidal breathing or after end-expiratory occlusion allows assessment of respiratory drive and muscle function.
An employer's 'duty of care' is enshrined in statute and common law.
This responsibility extends to identifying areas of risk to employee's safety and emotional well being.
Rotavirus is a double-stranded RNA enteric virus that is the most important cause of severe, dehydrating diarrhea in infants and young children worldwide.
Symptoms range from mild diarrhea to a life-threatening illness.
We report the outbreak of rotavirus infection in a large nursing home facility.
The diagnosis of hypothyroidism in older patients presents a difficult problem.
This is due primarily to the cumbersome and expensive techniques required for adequate surveillance of respiratory illnesses and the associated costs and availability of a laboratory capable of the relevant and timely report of diagnostic tests.
Here we describe our technique for surveillance of respiratory illness in the LTCF.
Elements of it may serve as strategies for routine care.
Interdisciplinary teams of graduate health professions students and faculty were provided with experiential learning opportunities while assisting a small rural community address critical health-related issues.
An interdisciplinary team of health professions students and faculty worked with community leaders and residents to develop leadership skills, enhance infrastructure and coordinate efforts to address health concerns.
A health marketing analysis and a series of year-long environmental assessments of surface and ground water were completed.
The community was assisted with reaching consensus for future actions, emphasizing local control, enhanced county-based ownership, and sustainability of intervention efforts.
B.P.
Koirala Institute of Health Sciences (BPKIHS), a new Health Sciences University in Nepal has taken several steps to respond to the societal needs and has adopted an integrated, partially problem based and community oriented curriculum.
The impact of the social and behavioral sciences on medical education has often been limited due to a variety of organizational, curricular and professional barriers.
The new "Medicine, Patient, and Society (MPS)" program in Tel Aviv attempts to rectify this educational shortcoming by exploring new ways to help students acquire the knowledge, attitudes and skills needed for becoming humanistic physicians and for helping patients (and themselves) adopt healthy behaviors.
To work toward this goal, this program integrates the biomedical and psychosocial aspects of health care, providing developmentally appropriate learning experiences according to levels of training, together with a variety of educational methods, including learner-centered approaches.
Designed with the primary goal of helping medical students improve their communication skills through the process of teaching children about health, the PHE program has secondary goals of supporting community teachers in their efforts to promote health and of teaching children about health and the prevention of disease and injury.
Behavior change counseling is one of the most difficult and constant challenges faced by health providers.
It has a significant impact on clinical outcomes as well as patient and provider satisfaction.
We review the key components of Brief Negotiation and describe how one large group model health maintenance organization was able to identify key staff members, develop educational opportunities and implement Brief Negotiation system-wide into standard care practices.
Primary care physicians are in an ideal position for offering such interventions.
The aim of this paper is to review the current knowledge of phantom tooth pain, a neuropathic facial pain disorder, thought to result from peripheral nerve injury.
Phantom tooth pain is a deafferentation pain disorder of persistent toothache in teeth that have been denervated (usually by root canal treatment) or pain in the area formerly occupied by teeth prior to their extraction.
The pain usually extends to the facial structures adjacent to tissues that have undergone deafferentation.
The clinical characteristics, differential diagnosis, epidemiology, and treatment of phantom tooth pain are reviewed.
Decision making at the end of life can be complex and emotionally challenging for healthcare providers, particularly in pediatrics.
Unfortunately, few undergraduate and graduate medical education curricula adequately address these issues.
In this article, we describe the plan and progress to date of the design, implementation, and evaluation of an end-of- life curriculum for pediatric residents.
Entering pediatric residents felt relatively uncomfortable dealing with death and dying, but by the end of training, residents felt more comfortable dealing with these issues.
Residents were relatively ambivalent about the degree to which their education helped them to deal with end-of-life issues.
The curriculum was implemented in the fall of 1999.
The evaluation instruments will include the previously used survey and an objective written examination.
The 3-hour seminar will be assessed with a pre-test post-test crossover design using standardized patients.
Strategies to improve adherence to diagnostic and treatment regimens are therefore important.
Severe involvement of infratentorial structures with partial reversibility has not been previously documented.
Although high-dose corticosteroid use constitutes a well-known risk factor for avascular necrosis (AVN), the risk of AVN with low-dose corticosteroids is not well established.
Objective To describe the clinical features of four patients we encountered with post-radiation lower motor neuron syndromes and to review the related literature BACKGROUND.
The earliest descriptions date back to World War II.
Subaortic stenosis (SAS) and pulmonic stenosis (PS) are, with PDA, the most common canine congenital heart defects in almost all epidemiological studies or frequency tabulations of the various European countries and the United States.
This should warrant obtaining comparable studies with little interobserver variability due to the data acquisition procedure.
Such uniformly acquired studies would also be easier to review by a board of experts, should this become necessary in the future.
The recommendations stated below are valid for the examinations of dogs as well as cats.
The present article represents the combined professional opinions of Drs.
Bussadori, Le Bobinnec, Amberger and Lombard.
Any commercial echocardiographic unit with 2.5 to 7.5 MHz sector transducers is suitable for imaging.
A so-called cardiac package is also required and provides the software for standardized M-mode, 2D- and Doppler measurements.
An ECG-tracing must be included on all recordings.
For the Doppler measurements, pulsed wave (PW) and continuous wave (CW) capabilities are required.
It is however a costly option and not essential for the documentation of neither SAS or PS.
The authors highly recommend against tranquilization of the patients, as blood flow velocities are affected by most sedatives.
Even if the blood pressure measured under sedation is in the normal range, this does not warrant truly non-influenced blood flow velocity values.
Understanding the use of medical services by nursing home residents as distinct from services provided by the nursing home is important, particularly as new medical care models are tested.
Treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer to the liver is not uniform.
We describe the management of metastatic colorectal cancer of the liver at a single institution during a 10-year period.
The exact mechanisms of this desensitization remain obscure, but modulations of the eicosanoid pathway occur and can be monitored with the help of a practicable in vitro assay on mixed leukocyte cultures.
The terminology authors often use to convey blinding status (single, double, and triple blinding) may be open to various interpretations.
Written self-disclosure as a method for reducing symptoms has not been evaluated in the primary care setting.
The utility of specialty ICUs is debated.
Alternatively, the impact of specialty ICUs on patient outcome is unknown.
Normovolemic hemodilution is an effective strategy to limit perioperative homologous blood transfusions.
The reduction of hematocrit related to hemodilution results in reduced arterial oxygen content, which initially is compensated for by an increase in cardiac output and oxygen extraction ratio.
To increase the efficacy of hemodilution, a low hematocrit should be aimed for; however, this implies the risk of myocardial ischemia and tissue hypoxia.
Oxidative stress is a crucial factor in the pathophysiology of acute pancreatitis and its systemic complications.
Treatment with antioxidants, however, failed to improve survival in most studies performed so far.
Lazaroids are a novel class of antioxidants that potently protect pancreatic acinar cells against oxidant attack in vitro.
Ethological tests of anxiety-related behaviors, such as the open field arena and elevated plus maze, are often carried out on transgenic animals in the attempt to correlate gene function with a behavioral phenotype.
However, the interpretation of such tests is problematic, as it is probable that different tests measure different aspects of behavior; indeed, anxiety may not be a unitary phenomenon.
Recent observations suggest that the spindle midzone is required for this process.
In this study, we investigated the possibility that targeted secretion in the vicinity of the spindle midzone is required for the execution of the terminal phase of cytokinesis.
The association between DNA methylation and gene silencing has long been recognized; however, signals that initiate de novo methylation are largely unknown.
In plants, recognition of RNAs that are inducers of posttranscriptional gene silencing (PTGS) can result in sequence-specific DNA methylation, and the aim of this work was to investigate whether heritable epigenetic changes can occur by this mechanism and if the Met1 methyltransferase is required.
Computerized analysis of breath sounds has relied on human auditory perception as the reference standard for identifying crackles.
In this study, we tested the human audibility of crackles by superimposing artificial clicks on recorded breath sounds and having physicians listen to the recordings to see if they could identify the crackles.
At the present time, talc is the one of the agents most commonly used for the production of a pleurodesis.
Tracheobronchial stenting is performed increasingly often.
Severely comminuted frontal sinus fractures are difficult to contour and immobilize.
Frequently, plates or wires are inadequate in fixating all fragments together, resulting in less than optimal outcomes.
Advancements in the development of biomaterials have now made titanium mesh a new option for the repair of severely comminuted fractures.
PREPARED was constructed from interviews with patients, carers and hospital staff.
It was trialed and modified to ensure sensitive measurement of key attributes of discharge planning process and outcome.
This paper explores the patient and carer versions of PREPARED.
Data items were reduced to domains of key questions by factor analysis.
Kao Corporation.
Funding from the European Commission.
The study was supported through the Otago Medical Research Foundation Laurenson Award.
Antioxidant supplements and placebos were kindly donated by Vitabiotics.
Supported by grant 301/00/P089 Grant Agency of Czech Republic and Internal Grant Agency of the Ministry of Health.
None.
CENIPALMA, Fundacin Cardiovascular del Oriente Colombiano, Universidad Industrial de Santander.
Nestl Foundation, Lausanne, Switzerland; Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
SmithKline Beecham funded this research project.
This study was supported by the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC).
The study was funded by donors to the Partnership for Child Development including the Rockefeller Foundation and the World Bank.
The study was funded by the Norwegian Universities' Committee for Development Research (NUFU).
LCM Stene was supported by a grant from the Throne Holst Foundation.
Hypersensitivity to electricity is a proposed environmental illness of unknown etiology.
Patients report a variety of symptoms that they relate to electric equipment.
The afflicted individuals suffer from ill health.
Many interventions have been tried but, to date, there is no one specific treatment that has been proven superior to other remedial actions.
In general, there is a lack of controlled prospective studies.
Small low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle size has been hypothesized to be a risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD).
Animal models link large LDL to atherosclerosis.
Free jejunal transfer has become the standard technique for reconstruction of the pharynx and hypopharynx, especially with proximal neoplastic lesions, whereas gastric tube interposition is the technique of choice for reconstruction of the hypopharynx and cervical esophagus when resection extends below the thoracic inlet.
Partially supported by Progetti di Ricerca Corrente, Istituto Auxologico Italiano, IRCCS, Milan, Italy.
This project has been sponsored by UNL Diversity and Development Fund.
The study was supported by a grant from the National Heart Foundation of New Zealand.
The data analysis was financially supported by the Health Insurance Fund.
This study was supported by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC).
Universal newborn hearing screening (UNHS) has been proposed as a means to speed diagnosis and treatment and thereby improve language outcomes in these children.
Earlier studies had been performed on a porcine model, but pigs produce lysine vasopressin hormone, while humans and dogs do not.
This study was designed to compare the effects of tracheal vasopressin with those of NaCl 0.9% (placebo) on haemodynamic variables in a dog model.
The purpose of our study was to develop a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model describing the behavior of lidocaine in humans by scaling up physiological variables from animal models of cardiac arrest.
We attempted to identify the optimal dose regime for lidocaine during cardiac arrest using this model.
Palm Oil Research Institute of Malaysia, Meat Research Corporation Australia.
Our research was partially supported by a grant from the Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique et Mdicale (contract 3.4505.94) and the David and Alice Van Buuren Foundation.
National Research Council (Italy), 'Invecchiamento' Project no.
95.01048.PF40.
Meadow Lea Foods, Australia.
Gerber Products Company, Fremont, MI.
Necrotizing pancreatitis is the most serious form of pancreatic inflammatory disease leading to multiorgan failure and a high (15-20%) mortality rate.
The poor nutritional and metabolic conditions and secondary bacterial translocation raise the mortality rate even more.
Biochemical evidence of hyperthyroidism may be associated with low bone mass, particularly in older postmenopausal women, but no prospective studies of thyroid function and subsequent fracture risk have been done.
Depression is common in long-term care (LTC) residents and causes increased mortality and morbidity.
Treatment resistance or intolerance to antidepressants is not unusual.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a safe and effective alternative for older community-dwelling residents but has not been well studied in LTC residents.
Despite recommendations for annual vaccinations against influenza, many older African-Americans do not receive this vaccine.
The treatment of choice for SE is an intravenous benzodiazepine; however, this is not feasible in most LTCFs because of the training level of the personnel and the risk of respiratory depression.
Transport to acute care facilities is often delayed and, in addition, many LTCF residents have "do not hospitalize" orders.
As an alternative to an intravenous benzodiazepine, rectal delivery of diazepam has been shown to be effective in stopping prolonged seizures and is more easily accomplished in the LTCF setting.
Discussions about advance directives should be offered to all nursing home residents.
Managed Medicare programs for nursing home residents allow for the development of performance improvement initiatives to ensure that these discussions occur and are documented.
Pneumonia is the most lethal infection in nursing homes.
The Infectious Disease Society of America recommends that attempts be made to obtain quality sputum to focus antibiotic therapy.
This is especially important within the enclosed space of a nursing home, where constant pressure from broad spectrum, empiric antibiotics sets the stage for the emergence of resistant organisms.
Daily low-intensity pulsed ultrasound therapy has been shown to improve and accelerate the bone healing process.
Although the sacroiliac joint has occupied a place in medical literature since at least the eighteenth century, its role in normal function and dysfunction of the back and hip remains controversial.
The controversy persists, because there is still no suitable method to study the role of stability and mobility at the sacroiliac joints in vivo.
One cost-effective approach to understanding such complex, deeply placed structures is biomechanical modeling.
Unfortunately, very few data on the mechanical properties of tissues in this region are currently available to modelers.
The Smith-Robinson Method (SR), which employs autogenous bone, is the current standard for anterior cervical fusion (AF) surgery.
However, autogenous bone has graft-related complications and morbidity, and harvesting it increases trauma and risk to the patient.
The use of hydroxyapatite ceramic (HAP) inserts may provide a superior alternative.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and thromboxane B2 (TxB2) concentrations are elevated in the injured spinal cord for hours to days after injury.
Treatment of animals with a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor has been shown to improve functional outcome in an animal model.
Anterior approaches to the lumbosacral spine afford the ideal window to the disc for interbody fusion.
Vascular injuries represent the most feared complications of such approaches.
To sustain the community work of their faculty, institutions need to reconceptualize faculty rewards, promotion, and tenure that are relevant to community activities.
Scholarship has evolved since the 17th century from a focus on character-building to the practical needs of the nation to an emphasis on research.
In 1990, Boyer proposed four interrelated dimensions of scholarship: (1) discovery; (2) integration;(3) application; and (4) teaching.
The challenge became the development of criteria and innovative and creative ways to assess community scholarship.
This paper reviews four evidence-based models to document and evaluate scholarly activities that are applicable to community scholarship.
We propose a new model for community scholarship that focuses on both processes and outcomes, crosses the boundaries of teaching, research, and service, and reshapes and integrates them through community partnership.
In addition, health services are increasingly delivered in community-based settings by interdisciplinary teams.
Health care and health professions education has been shifting into community settings.
Kellogg Foundation that aimed to develop educational collaboration between community health centers, their respective communities and health professions schools.
Admission to medical school typically depends upon students' academic achievement in their prior education.
Knowledge of statistics is particularly important in the context of "evidence-based medicine".
This study was undertaken with all 299 graduates of 12 consecutive classes (in 6 years) of a Brazilian medical school.
eliciting information and solving problems).
In addition, they are given little or no help in learning the skills that are central to being reflective practitioners.
Put another way, they can derive lessons from their experiences that will enhance their skills and enable them to provide better patient care.
When learners reflect aloud on their insights and their strengths and deficiencies before their teachers give them advice or feedback, learners can make their own discoveries and have the dignity of identifying what they need to work on.
The learners' self-disclosures provide educators with "diagnostic" information that can enable them to tailor their teaching to the learners' interests and needs.
Educators can help learners become reflective practitioners by taking such steps as ensuring learners have worthy experiences on which to reflect; observing learners in action; scheduling times and places for reflection; building trust; determining the learners' prior experiences, comfort with, and attitudes toward reflection; ensuring learners understand the rationale and strategies for reflection; modeling reflection; clarifying the learning goals; encouraging learners to have questions to ask themselves; helping learners reflect on their thoughts, feelings, biases, and assumptions; helping learners consider other approaches; inviting learners to identify the lessons they've learned; and asking them to discuss how they intend to use these new understandings.
During 1998-2000, an international team of five researchers described nine innovative health professions education programmes as selected by The Network: Community Partnerships for Health through Innovative Education, Service, and Research.
Each researcher visited one or two schools.
The purpose of these descriptions was to identify key issues in designing and implementing community-based education.
Assessment of clinical confidence and competence of senior medical students during an obstetrics and gynaecology clerkship using an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE).
The role of physician variability in pain management is unknown.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection plays an important role in the pathogenesis of chronic gastritis, peptic ulcer disease, MALT lymphoma and gastric cancer.
Recently Helicobacter spp.
infection has been correlated with cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and acute myocardial infarction.
In clinical practice, the selection of the appropriate test will depend on the disease and on cost-effectiveness.
Associations have been reported between gastroesophageal reflux and a variety of upper and lower respiratory tract conditions.
Respiratory conditions and GER are common and would be expected to coexist in many patients.
Whether there is a relationship between GER and these conditions and its nature remain controversial.
The purpose of this paper is to review the relationship between GER and these conditions.
To investigate the effects of a hypocaloric balanced diet therapy and a supplementation with antioxidant and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids on the oxidative balance and erythrocytes membrane fluidity status.
Obesity is now recognized as a major risk factor for many pathologies.
The state of obesity is associated with an increase in reactive oxygen species; persistent overconsumption of calories in the obese may be exposing them to excessive damage besides maintaining the state of obesity.
It is possible that dietary modification and association with assumption of antioxidant and omega-3 oral integration contributes to a reduction in reactive oxygen species generation and a corresponding reduction in indexes of oxidative damage, including lipid peroxidation.
Despite a paucity of evidence supporting its use, many physicians, nurses and parents still apply this treatment.
Our objective was to summarize available evidence and assess the rationale for the ongoing use of humidity to treat childhood croup.
Fusiform aneurysm of cerebral vessels is a rare pathology that presents with ischemic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, or mass effect.
Current stroke subtype criteria do not include an HRCI category.
Early treatment with intra-arterial thrombolysis has been shown to be effective in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke because of occlusion of the middle cerebral artery.
It is unclear how to use this therapy, however, when there is also occlusion of the parent internal carotid artery.
The association of stroke and antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) other than anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL) is not well documented.
A useful scheme enabling physicians and other health care providers to stratify stroke severity on admission to predict acute hospital outcomes and improve efficiency of inpatient care has not been described.
One factor could be due to lack of awareness of stroke symptoms.
A 1996 preproject survey among Canadian Hospital Epidemiology Committee (CHEC) sites revealed variations in the prevention, detection, management and surveillance of Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD).
The CHEC, in collaboration with the Laboratory Centre for Disease Control (Health Canada) and under the Canadian Nosocomial Infection Surveillance Program, undertook a prevalence surveillance project among selected hospitals throughout Canada.
A chickenpox vaccine was recently licensed in Canada.
Because this vaccine has caused some controversy within the health care profession, studies among Quebec parents and vaccine providers were carried out, surveying their opinions concerning chickenpox vaccination.
Amantadine, an antiviral agent, is the only drug currently approved in Canada for prophylaxis of influenza A virus infection.
As amantadine is used more frequently for influenza A outbreak control in care facilities for elderly people, physicians are increasingly called on to prescribe it for residents and to consider the necessity of requesting plasma Cr levels.
Increased interest in implementing evidence-based medicine in paediatric practice has led to the development of a variety of electronic clinical and decision-making support tools.
Electronic medical records and information resources have the potential to improve both the clinical and cost effectiveness of paediatric community practice at the point of care.
Barriers to the successful implementation of clinical information Intranet resources include physician attitudes, as well as system and practitioner capabilities.
Essential oils, such as camphorated and eucalyptus oils, are volatile oils that can be absorbed by mouth and through the skin; if ingested orally by children, they can be harmful, even life-threatening.
Use of multiple care providers is known to be associated with poor continuity of care.
Viral laryngotracheobronchitis croup is the most common cause of acute upper airway obstruction in young children.
Some strength athletes use androgenic-anabolic steroids (AAS) to improve body dimensions, though the drugs' long- and short-term effects have not been definitively established.
In the Enhanced Suppression of the Platelet IIb/IIIa Receptor with Integrilin Therapy (ESPRIT) trial, treatment with eptifibatide, a platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa integrin blocker, was found to reduce the ischemic complications of nonurgent coronary stent implantation at 48 hours and 30 days.
SP/SO/B39/94).
Danish Medical Research Council, the FREJA programme.
This study was partly funded by grants from the International Olive Oil Board (Consejo Olecola Internacional), Comunidad Autnoma de Madrid, Fundacin Pedro Barri de la Maza, and Fundacin Eugenio Rodrguez Pascual.
The study was sponsored by the National Technology Agency of Finland (Tekes).
The purpose of this manuscript is to review techniques of optimizing the interface between the bone and pin in external fixation to minimize pin loosening and infection.
Head injury is the leading cause of traumatic death in the United States.
Prior studies indicate that some devices used to monitor metered-dose inhaler (MDI) use are not accurate.
In acute severe asthma, treatment must be initiated early to reverse the pathophysiology that may render airways less responsive to bronchodilation.
The early use of bolus intravenous salbutamol has also been shown to improve outcome, including earlier discharge.
Health Outcomes of Women, a multi-year, multi-wave study.
Chronic otitis media with effusion (OME) has long been considered to be a sterile inflammatory process.
Increased intestinal epithelial apoptosis is present in both human autopsy studies and animal models of sepsis.
Numico Research BV.
beta-Blockade therapy has recently been shown to convey a survival benefit in preoperative noncardiac vascular surgical settings.
The effect of preoperative beta-blocker therapy on coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) outcomes has not been assessed.
The study was sponsored by SEV, Bourg la Reine, France.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus is a T cell mediated autoimmune disease with no known methods of prevention.
Non-selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit both cyclo-oxygenase (COX) isoenzymes, i.e.
COX-1 and COX-2.
Rofecoxib, an agent that selectively inhibits COX-2, has been shown to provide equivalent anti-inflammatory and analgesic efficacy to comparator non-selective NSAIDs in osteoarthritis (OA) and other pain models with a significant improvement in gastrointestinal (GI) safety and tolerability.
All houses in the study have now been improved, including insulation, double-glazing, re-roofing, heating, ventilation and electrical rewiring.
Follow-up surveys are underway.
Septic shock is characterized by arteriolar vasodilation and hypotension.
We have tested the hypothesis that nitric oxide arising from inducible nitric oxide synthase in the central nervous system is responsible for the deficiency in vasopressin release and consequent hypotension during experimental septic shock.
The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan and the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan.
Nestec, Switzerland.
Kyushu University (Fukuoka, Japan) and the California Walnut Commission (California, USA).
The Danish International Development Assistance.
High-frequency oscillatory ventilation enables the use of relatively high mean airway pressures without the lung damage associated with conventional positive pressure ventilation.
Mean airway pressures can be increased, resulting in static lung expansion that approaches total lung capacity with its negative impact on venous return.
Therefore, knowledge of lung volume is important for safe patient management.
A simple, noninvasive technique to enable the clinician to determine the optimal mean airway pressure likely would improve patient management.
Internal hernias account for only 0.2 to 0.9% of the cases of intestinal obstruction.
They do not have specific clinical manifestations, and are usually diagnosed during laparotomy for acute intestinal obstruction.
Internal hernias through the lesser omentum are extremely rare.
This conference was convened under the sponsorship of The National Kidney Foundation, with representation from The American Society of Transplantation and The American Society of Transplant Surgeons, The American Society of Nephrology, The United Resource Networks, The United Network for Organ Sharing, The Association of Organ Procurement Organizations, The National Institutes of Health, and The Division of Transplantation of the Health Resources and Services Administration (see Appendix).
The suggested content of screening interviews, which provide information regarding the donation process, elicits pertinent medical and psychosocial history, and assesses NDD motivation are presented in this report.
Approaches to identifying the center that would evaluate the suitability of the NDD, to performing the kidney recovery, and to selecting the NDD recipient are also proposed.
Other ethical issues such as the use of prisoners as an NDD, compensation for the NDD, media involvement, and communication between the NDD and recipient are discussed.
Phloem powder and the study breads were provided by Finnpettu Oy and Linkosuo Oy, respectively.
The clinical study work was sponsored in part by Oy Jurilab Ltd.
Unilever Research Vlaardingen, The Netherlands.
Ventilator-induced lung injury may be caused by overdistension of alveoli during high-pressure ventilation.
In this study, we examined the effects of increasing inspiratory time on ventilator-induced lung injury.
However, little is known about pregnancy outcomes in this population.
Mildola Ltd, Tuusula, Finland and Kyrnmaan Juustomestarit Ltd, lsokyr, Finland.
This work was funded by Borax Europe Ltd.
The United Nations Administrative Committee on Coordination/Sub-Committee on Nutrition.
Dutch Foundation for Alcohol Research (SAR).
This study was supported by a grant from the NH&amp;MRC, Australia.
Hyperkinetic vocal function (muscle tension dysphonia) may be an indication of underlying glottal insufficiency.
In the face of an organic voice disorder such as presbylaryngis or vocal fold paresis.
Hyperkinetic laryngeal behaviors may be used to achieve glottal closure.
Such compensatory laryngeal behaviors may mask the correct underlying diagnosis.
There has been increasing interest in the use of health-related quality-of-life (HRQL) assessments in daily clinical practice, yet few empirical studies have been conducted to evaluate the usefulness of such assessments.
Noncuffed, percutaneously inserted central venous catheters (CVCs) are widely used and cause at least 250,000 bloodstream infections (BSIs) in U.S. hospitals each year.
Despite concerted support to vaccination programmes, coverage remains low.
While health service reasons for this are known, there is little information on caretaker constraints to vaccination in Africa.
Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRI) are well established in psychopharmacological therapy.
SSRIs have been shown to be very effective in the treatment of depressive, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders and have a favorable side effect profile.
Although bleeding events are rare, there may be potentially severe hematologic complications following treatment with SSRIs.
Fluoxetine has been reported to cause ecchymosis, bleeding and other hematologic problems.
The aim of this article is to report a case of suspected fluoxetine-induced ecchymosis and to review the literature about this adverse effect.
We pilot-tested "Prospective Payment System in LTC," a 7.5 hour continuing medical education (CME) program designed to help participants make plans to implement and adhere to PPS guidelines and regulatory requirements.
The clinical distinction between DLB and Alzheimers's disease (AD) can be difficult due to the significant clinical overlap between the two disorders.
In some cases, the diagnosis is only made at postmortem examination.
The failure mechanism of the knee ligament (bone-ligament-bone complex) at different strain rates is an important subject in the biomechanics of the knee.
This study reviews and summarizes the literature describing ligament injury as a function of stain rate, which has been published during the last 30 years.
Bisphosphonates are indicated in the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis.
However, bone mineral density (BMD) continues to decline in up to 15% of bisphosphonate users.
While randomized trials have evaluated the efficacy of concurrent bisphosphonates and vitamin D, the incremental benefit of vitamin D remains uncertain.
Dislocated fracture of the proximal physeal plate of the tibia with or without metaphyseal fragment is rare in children.
This unusual fracture classically excludes rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament due to the ligament's stability.
Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors increase new bone formation in vitro and in rodents.
Morphological and electrophysiological studies of ischemic muscles in peripheral arterial disease disclosed evidence of denervation and fibre atrophy.
In the annulus, collagen fibers that make up the lamellae have a wavy, planar crimped pattern.
This crimping plays a role in disc biomechanical function by allowing collagen fibers to stretch during compression.
Although 'poor' unloaded standing posture has been related to spinal pain, there is little evidence of whether, and how much, exposure to posterior load produces injurious effects on spinal tissue.
The objective of this study was to describe the effect on adolescent sagittal plane standing posture of different loads and positions of a common design of school backpack.
The underlying study aim was to test the appropriateness of two adult 'rules-of-thumb'-that for postural efficiency, backpacks should be worn high on the spine, and loads should be limited to 10% of body weight.
The objective of the study is to examine the reliability of erosion and joint space narrowing scores derived from hand x-rays posted on the Internet compared to scores derived from original plain x-rays.
Carpal malalignment following the malunited distal radial fracture is described to develop as an adaptation to realign the hand to the malunion.
It is also reported to develop during the immobilization itself rather than after fracture healing.
The present work was aimed to study the natural course and the quantitative assessment of such adaptive carpal realignment following distal radial fracture.
Mycoplasma fermentans has been associated with rheumatoid arthritis.
The purpose of this study was to determine the ability of M. fermentans to induce experimental arthritis in rabbits following inoculation of the bacteria in the trachea and knee joints.
Although much is known about the regulation of osteoclast (OC) formation and activity, little is known about OC senescence.
In particular, the fate of of OC seen after 1,25-(OH)2D3 administration in vivo is unclear.
There is evidence that the normal fate of OC is to undergo apoptosis (programmed cell death).
Avascular necrosis of bone (osteonecrosis) can cause structural failure and subsequent deformation, leading to joint dysfunction and pain.
Structural failure is the result of resorption of necrotic bone during revascularization, before new bone has formed or consolidated enough for loadbearing.
Bone resorption can be reduced by bisphosphonates.
If resorption of the necrotic bone could be reduced during the revascularization phase until sufficient new bone has formed, it would appear that structural failure could be avoided.
Numerous agencies have developed clinical practice guidelines for the management of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
To investigate the effects of intravenous lignocaine infusions (IV lignocaine) in fibromyalgia.
Thus, the purpose of this study was to examine the association between iliocostal distance and vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in patients seen in a clinical setting.
Recent cadaver studies show stability against axial rotation with a cylindrical cage is marginally superior to a rectangular cage.
It has been reported that there is an inverse association between osteoarthritis (OA) and osteoporosis.
This report demonstrates the new technique of colour Doppler 3-dimensional transrectal ultrasound in differential diagnosis of elevated PSA.
Urethral diverticulum is a rare cause of recurrent urinary tract infection in women.
Internal fixation putatively improves the arthrodesis rate and outcome.
Spinal surgery in the workers compensation population shows evidence of less favorable outcomes than in general health cases.
Although spine surgery has been alleged to be a cause of poor outcomes, such outcomes may be improved by appropriate postsurgical rehabilitation.
TASK OF THE REVIEW COMMITTEE: The organization, in which all universities are united, appoints a review committee for each educational program.
Most educational programs are taught at different universities.
Consequently, the review committee visits several universities.
We describe a collaboration between three medical schools, one in a developed country and two in developing countries based on shared challenges and missions.
JCU's first class started in 2000 as the only complete medical school in Tropical Australia and was founded with a mission to meet the health care needs of rural, remote and underserved populations in the region.
UPNG serves a predominantly rural developing nation where infectious diseases and other diseases of rural developing nations predominate.
Based on their common challenges and goals, the three schools established an informal collaborative relationship called "the Tropical Triangle" in the late 1990s.
Community-based educational opportunities can diversify and strengthen traditional clinical education.
With growing diversity of patient populations and increasing life expectancy, it is imperative that medical students and residents prepare for practice within this context.
This prospective study compared group process literature to topics utilized in a year-long family practice resident support group.
Insulin autoantibodies (IAA), antibodies against endogenous insulin, may be detected in type 1 diabetic children before the start of insulin treatment.
The control group (V) comprised seven healthy children, aged 10-18 yr (mean 14.2 +/- 3.1).
SPECT was done using technetium-99m hexamethyl propylene amine oxime.
These changes were not related to the age, sex, diabetes duration, mean blood glucose or HbA1C.
Basal ganglia hypoperfusion was significant in groups I (p &lt; 0.01) and II (p &lt; 0.01) compared with controlled diabetics.
The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) demonstrated that the rate-limiting step to the intensification of diabetes management in adolescents and adults was hypoglycemia.
Patients who do not improve after lumbar surgery may be given the nonspecific label of "failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS)."
Since 1981, there has not been a quantitative assessment of the etiologies of FBSS despite major improvements in surgical techniques and diagnostic testing.
Furthermore, no randomised, controlled clinical trials using placebo have been carried out in children.
In the present paper compositional changes of rat liver from birth to adult age were investigated by proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy.
However, the absence of a patient-centred measure specifically designed to assess this care has constrained innovation.
Because of decentralised responsibilities, ultimo 1999 85 RIOs were set up.
RIOs differ in their structural and process characteristics.
Insight into factors relating to client quality (e.g.
client satisfaction) can improve the needs assessment process.
Zinc and copper are beneficial to health, growth and development, and also for the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD) with regards to improved dietary habits as a preliminary step in CVD prevention.
The aim of the study was to determine the status of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in human subjects during Ramadan fasting.
However, with the decreased availability of urokinase, alternatives needed to be sought.
Thyroid hormones are known to influence acid and pepsin secretion, though the exact mechanism is not fully understood.
In this study, distension-stimulated acid and pepsin secretions in hypo- and hyperthyroid rats were compared with controls.
The aim of the study was to help to predict low birth weight infants by measuring placental diameter and thickness.
The aim of the study was to determine how Saudi medical trainees in Canada perceive their training programs with regards to educational, ethnic and socio-cultural issues, and if different factors such as the chosen field of training, place or level of training make any difference to this perception.
Adolescence is an important period in an individuals life.
Overweight and obesity are fraught with several health problems even later in life.
The objective of this study was to estimate the overweight, obesity, body fat and muscle content of Saudi adolescents as compared to a recognized reference population.
Transfusion-associated malaria is a potentially serious complication that continues to pose risks in blood bank settings.
We evaluated the potential usefulness of ELISA screening for malaria antibody and P. falciparum antigen among Saudi blood donors.
Low birth weight (LBW) represents the third leading cause of death in children in Yemen, and is the most significant predictor of death, health, growth and development.
On September 30, 2000, staff at the Canadian Food Inspection Agency's Centre of Expertise for Rabies, located at the Animal Diseases Research Institute in Ottawa, Ontario, diagnosed rabies in a child from Quebec.
After spending a week in intensive care in a Montreal hospital, the nine-year-old boy succumbed to this nearly always fatal disease.
Pharmacokinetic monitoring has been insufficiently studied in paediatric solid organ transplantation, especially because some agents are relatively new to paediatric use, are of new formulation modification or are being used in combinations not previously well studied.
The choice of immunosuppressive drugs after paediatric renal transplantation is increasing.
Cyclosporine A (CyA), tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) use has become routine.
Short-term therapeutic regimens based on a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) and two antibiotics have been recommended for the eradication of H. pylori.
Resistance of H. pylori to metronidazole may adversely affect the efficacy of such regimens.
is available if you access this article at http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00134-002-1554-5.
On that page (frame on the left side), a link takes you directly to the supplementary materials.
While general consensus holds that food portion sizes are increasing, no empirical data have documented actual increases.
Temperature is an important modulator of the evolution of ischemic brain injury--with hypothermia lessening and hyperthermia exacerbating damage.
We have previously reported in a rat model of asphyxial cardiac arrest that active warming, to prevent spontaneous hypothermia, worsens brain injury.
Observational studies suggest that heavy alcohol consumption may increase the risk of stroke while moderate consumption may decrease the risk.
motor vehicle crashes (MVCs) predominated as the cause of injury for both groups; however, minorities were more likely to sustain injury from acts of violence and auto-versus-pedestrian crashes.
Rehabilitation services: significant differences were found in the types and intensity of rehabilitation services provided; these included physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology, but not psychology.
The thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare disorder with a high mortality rate if untreated or delayed therapy.
Cardiac troponin I (cTnI) is a sensitive and specific marker for myocardial injury.
Serial cTnI measurements have been used to identify perioperative myocardial cell injury.
The two major mechanisms to explain oral tolerance are anergy/deletion of autoreactive lymphocytes and active suppression.
Lead exposures have been shown to be associated with increased blood pressure and risk of hypertension in older men.
In perimenopausal women, skeletal lead stores are an important source of endogenous lead exposure due to increased bone demineralization.
Drugs are related to the etiology of pancreatitis in about 1.4-2% of cases.
Statins are generally well tolerated.
Direccin General de Salud Pblica and the Health Council of the Andalusian Regional Government.
: Pharmacia A/S and Pronova A/S, Norway.
The study was partially funded by the Grains Research Development Corporation, Canberra and Meadow Lea Foods Ltd, Mascot, Australia.
HJ Heinz, Melbourne, Australia provided the tomato products and some funds for their carotenoid analysis.
Earlier studies demonstrated that the effects of spinal cord injury (SCI) on spermatogenesis were associated with altered Sertoli cell responses to treatment with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and/or testosterone (T).
Because of the importance of the cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) signal pathway in hormonal actions on Sertoli cells and spermatogenesis, the purpose of this study was to determine whether cAMP signaling in testicular cells is altered after SCI.
Objective tests that quantify diseases are important in their diagnosis, treatment and prognosis.
Nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC) is a distinct form of cancer of the upper respiratory or digestive tract in which the epidemiologic features, origin, histopathologic types, treatment, and prognosis are different from those associated with other malignant neoplasms of this anatomical area.
To enhance the effectiveness of diet in lowering cholesterol, recommendations of the Adult Treatment Panel III of the National Cholesterol Education Program emphasize diets low in saturated fat together with plant sterols and viscous fibers, and the American Heart Association supports the use of soy protein and nuts.
As a result, immune modulation, first with interleukin 2 and later with other cytokines, has been tried in the clinical setting as part of antitumor therapy.
Defects in X-chromosome inactivation distort sex ratio in mice.
The BRCA1 gene is also involved in X-chromosome inactivation, suggesting the possibility that some sex-ratio distortion may be associated with BRCA1-related human cancer syndromes.
Dutch Prevention fund, grants no.
28.1358 and 28.1006.
We sought to assess how cholesterol levels at different ages modify the remaining lifetime risk of coronary heart disease (CHD).
Induced sputum (IS) using the cytospin technique has been extensively employed to characterize inflammatory airway diseases; however, procedures of cell enrichment based on cytospin increase the analytical costs and require slide processing within a short period of time after sampling.
Dyslipidemias are a modifiable risk factor for coronary heart disease.
The benefits of cholesterol reduction drug therapies are limited by poor patient compliance with drug regimens.
Using the EQS Software (3), Confirmatory Factor Analyses (CFA) were carried out in this study.
Thus, 'the evaluation of the models' fit with the empirical data was carried out by taking into account various statistical indices.
Moreover, the estimation method "Maximum Likelihood-Robust" was carried out in order to evaluate the models.
Our earlier work has shown that surgical manipulation of the intestine results in oxidative stress and mucosal damage along with alterations in the brush border membrane (BBM).
The mechanisms of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) formation are poorly understood, mainly due to the lack of a useful and reproducible model.
Accordingly, the goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that abluminal calcium chloride (CaCl(2)) application could create TAAs in the mouse.
Sodium-dependent brush-border nutrient transport is decreased 2 weeks after massive enterectomy.
We hypothesize that glutamine (GLN) transport will be enhanced by earlier and longer growth factor infusion, with differential effects on the Na(+)-dependent GLN transport systems A, B(0,+), and B(0)/ASCT2.
The biological factors determining a successful spinal fusion have not yet been fully determined.
The individual risk of subsidence for specific lumbar levels in ALIF procedures has not been determined.
Despite improvements in diagnostic and surgical techniques, operative mortality associated with liver resection is still greater than 2% in most of the recent studies.
Causalgia is not familiar to most physicians whose training and experience are limited to civilian practice.
Several models to assist GPs effectively manage mental health problems have been described.
These models require regular contact and so have had limited utility in rural settings.
Studies on the efficacy of assertive community treatment suggest that it can lead to improved consumer outcomes.
However, these studies are usually in urban settings and involve experimental teams.
In many rural and regional areas community treatment teams offer standard rather than assertive community care.
It is therefore important to investigate the effectiveness of community treatment teams in rural and regional Australia.
Previous research carried out in the USA6 and Australia demonstrated that high school careers advisers needed to target high school students earlier in their studies before senior subjects were decided and that about a quarter of careers advisers indicated poor knowledge about health careers.10 WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS: Provision of practical support to high school careers advisers, such as distributing a mentorship directory and up-to-date health career kits as well as facilitating networking with health professionals constitute effective means to promote health careers to high school students.
Initiatives to foster collaboration between rural mental health services and general practitioners have not included other providers of primary care.
We wished to explore the views of community-care and mental health workers on barriers to the management of mental health problems in rural Western Australia and how these could be addressed.
Supported by Semper AB, Sweden, Oy Lahden Polttimo, Finland, the SL-Foundation, Sweden, Swedish National Board for Industrial and Technical Development (NUTEK), the Nordic Industrial Foundation, Swedish Council for Forestry and Agricultural Research (SJFR, project no 50.0306/97).
National Research Council (Italy)--Invecchiamento Project No.
95.01048.
PF40.
National Research Council (Italy) - Invecchiamento Project no.
95.01048.PF40.
Dawes Scholarship, Royal Adelaide Hospital.
International Atomic Energy Agency through RC 10981/R1.
Although clinicians embrace the concepts of evidence-based medicine, most identify limited personal time as the major barrier towards its implementation into daily practice.
Busy clinicians who practice evidence-based medicine identify systematic reviews and evidence-based clinical practice guidelines as very useful resources.
Sleep is disturbed at high altitudes.
Low PO2 levels at high altitude cause hyperventilation, which results in secondary hypocapnia (low PaCO2 levels).
Thus, although sleep disruption at high altitudes is generally assumed to be caused by hypoxia, it may instead be the result of hypocapnia.
The article outlines the evaluation framework devised for a semi-formal disability service project in central Queensland, Australia, which was implemented using a community-based, participatory model.
A key assumption on which this study was based is that the participants are 'expert nurses', as defined by Benner.
In 1991 the Philippines Government introduced a major devolution of national government services, which included the first wave of health sector reform, through the introduction of the Local Government Code of 1991.
The Code devolved basic services for agriculture extension, forest management, health services, barangay (township) roads and social welfare to Local Government Units.
General practice (GP) registrars train in general practice as working apprentices alongside GP supervisors.
GP registrars are allocated a training advisor to oversee their progress throughout their training.
Central Australian GP registrars expressed concern to their training advisor regarding certain work partnerships with their GP supervisors.
The impact of geographical location on the maintenance of older rural women's health and well-being has been largely unexamined in the research literature.
There have been many research programs about ageing Australian people in urban areas but few concerning the older rural population.
Few clues can be found as to how their needs and expectations may differ from those of their urban counterparts.
The size of Australia's older population is increasing and steadily becoming feminised.
Approximately 37% of these older women live outside capital cities in rural and remote areas.
In 2001, the Northern Queensland Rural Division of General Practice drew on wide community consultation and recent research into the recruitment and retention of AHPs to develop a Model for delivery of outreach allied health services operating within a primary healthcare framework.
Explanations of the impact of environment on health status have traditionally been limited to a narrow picture of rural life.
Our analysis focuses on ways in which these rural women understand, talk about, and experience health.
Enabling medical students to undertake positive rural experiences during their undergraduate course is a well-supported long-term strategy to provide a sustainable solution to this problem.
The Parallel Rural Community Curriculum (PRCC) was developed by Flinders University, South Australia, in 1997 to enable senior medical students to undertake an entire clinical year based in rural general practice in the Riverland region of South Australia.
The academic success of this program has been widely acknowledged.
Many institutions are planning to use this model as a basis for their own curriculum reform.
However, questions have been asked as to how well this program would translate into another region.
Due to the success of the Riverland program, Flinders University decided to commence a second PRCC program in 2002, this time in the Greater Green Triangle (GGT) region of South Australia and Victoria, Australia.
Although musculoskeletal disorders (MSD) represent a significant occupational problem for hospital nurses, few investigations target nurses in rural facilities.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in Scotland after coronary heart disease and cancer and is a major cause of long-term disability.
There is evidence in other clinical conditions such as asthma, diabetic retinopathy, and cancer that rural residents may have poorer outcomes, due to relative inaccessibility of health-service provision or because the disease is at a more advanced stage at diagnosis.
However, the evidence-base for stroke care and outcomes in remote and rural areas is small and the subject matter is under-researched.
The study explored whether stroke care and outcome was affected by remoteness and rurality.
However, very little of this has concerned young people, and what has been published has been mainly from countries other than Australia and may not generalise to Australian youth.
This paper reports findings on rural-urban similarities and differences.
The specific study objective was to identify and describe rural-urban differences, especially those associated with structural disadvantage.
We present two cases to illustrate the assessment and management of post-traumatic stress disorder (PtSD) in the context of traumatic brain injury (TBI).
Case KE suffered a TBI in a road traffic accident (RTA) in which his girlfriend was killed.
Case CM survived a penetrating neurological injury from a severe knife attack.
Both suffered cognitive difficulties, primarily in attention and memory, and selective visual impairments, and had endured significant losses of social role.
The present case study describes the neuropsychological testing and a cognitive-behavioural treatment for a 45-year-old female with paraprosopia--the experience of seeing faces sometimes distorted in grotesque and threatening ways.
The failure of integrative brain function is a fundamental characteristic of schizophrenia.
Synchronous Gamma (40 Hz) activity, proposed as a candidate mechanism underlying the integration ("binding") of distributed brain activities, may provide a direct window into schizophrenic disintegration.
We attempted to extend findings of a relationship between formal thought disorder and left superior temporal gyrus (STG) volume in schizophrenia by examining two indices of formal thought disorder.
This study addressed the relationship of both semantic priming and slowed lexical access to the symptoms of schizophrenia, and evaluated their association with other neurocognitive deficits.
Several studies have shown that schizophrenic patients have impaired theory-of-mind skills involving the attribution of false beliefs and intentions to others.
The situation, however, remains unclear as far as the attribution of intentions to others is concerned.
The relative inability to discover a significant relationship between depression and cognitive dysfunction may be due to methodological difficulties in previous studies (e.g., use of correlational analysis; use of neuropsychological measures that are generally not affected by depression).
The main question addressed by this study was the evaluation of the experimental conditions under which TD schizophrenic patients are able to deploy cognitive strategies for semantic context processing.
Theory-of-mind (ToM) refers to the ability to understand and predict the behaviour of others based on their mental states.
Research from brain imaging and lesion studies indicate that the frontal lobes are both involved and necessary to understand mental states.
Former responses are thought to be automatic and fast, providing approximate information about the external stimulus, whereas the latter responses are more controlled and allow comparison with previous experience.
Since only the cortical pathway carries information available to awareness, this model also accounts for the striking irrationality of specific phobia in humans.
Closed head injury is associated with impairment in a range of executive skills, and with everyday difficulties in social interactions.
Comprehension of pragmatic language plays an important role in social interactions.
The present study was designed to examine performance on a task involving pragmatic judgement in people who had suffered closed head injury (CHI), and the relationship between this and any impairments in executive skills.
Recent research has suggested that some executive dysfunctions in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) represent an epiphenomenon of comorbid depressive symptoms.
Normal line bisection deviation to the left of the true centre has been interpreted as resulting from relative right hemisphere activation.
Right hemisphere involvement has also been associated with the problems in dependency and attachment from infancy to adulthood.
Abnormal attributions and deficits in theory of mind (ToM) skills have been implicated in paranoid delusions.
They further suggested that more fundamental information-processing deficits, by affecting theory of mind skills, increase the probability of paranoid attributions.
Distinguishing conversion disorder from malingering presents a significant challenge as the diagnosis ultimately depends on the patient's subjective report and the clinician's suspicion of an intention to deceive.
Using hypnosis to manipulate the intentionality of movement inhibition in the same subjects, we used positron emission tomography (PET) to determine whether failure to move during intentionally simulated and subjectively experienced paralysis is mediated by different neural structures.
The association between the location of an ectocervical lesion and the sensibility of cytologic screening has not been adequately evaluated.
The American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to sponsor continuing medical education for physicians.
The ASCCP designates this continuing medical education activity for 1 credit hour in Category I of the Physician's Recognition Award of the American Medical Association.
Credit is available for those who choose to apply.
The Home Study Course is planned and produced in accordance with the ACCME's Essential Areas and Elements.
The American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to sponsor continuing medical education for physicians.
The ASCCP designates this continuing medical education activity for 1 credit hour in Category I of the Physician's Recognition Award of the American Medical Association.
Credit is available for those who choose to apply.
The Home Study Course is planned and produced in accordance with the ACCME's Essential Areas and Elements.
Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) is a treatment option for chronic pain patients.
The most common indication for SCS is the failed back syndrome with leg pain.
In the past, low back, axial neuropathic type pain was not responsive to SCS.
The objective of this study was to describe the clinical pathology and seasonal variation of cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) in an impoverished community.
Influenza is a potentially life-threatening illness that affects approximately 10% of the population annually, with resulting personal misery and societal disruption.
Oseltamivir is a novel influenza treatment that has been extensively investigated.
Renal adverse events are a troublesome complication of bisphosphonate therapy.
D-003 is a cholesterol-lowering agent that is isolated and purified from sugarcane wax and has concomitant antiplatelet effects.
This study examined the epidemiology, antibiotic susceptibility and serotype distribution of Streptococcus pneumoniae associated with invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) in British Columbia.
Salmonella serotype typhimurium (ST), in particular, is increasingly becoming a major public health concern because of its ability to acquire multiple resistant genes (5,6).
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections are increasingly being encountered and pose an increasing burden to the health care system in Canada.
The standard method for specimen collection and transport for microbiological diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis is an air-dried smear of vaginal secretions, promptly heat- or alcohol-fixed, Gram-stained and scored by Nugent's criteria.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is an uncommon cause of hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) with a unique pathophysiology that differs from Shiga toxin-related HUS.
Cervical spine ROM movements taken accurately with reliable measuring devices are important in outcome measures as well as in measuring disability.
The most common space involved was the parapharyngeul space.
No specific etiology was determined in .38%; an odontogenic cause was discovered in 28% of the patients; tonsillar/pharyngeal infections in 24% of patients and foreign body impaction in 7% of cases.
The main morbidity was due to mediastinitis (5 patients).
I patient succumbed to the disease.
Mixed flora with aerobic and anaerobic infections was identified in most of the cases.
The purpose of the study was to calculate gentamicin, tobramycin, and amikacin pharmacokinetic parameters in HIV-infected children and compare conventional multiple daily aminoglycoside dosing to once-daily aminoglycoside (ODA) dosing in attaining peak serum aminoglycoside concentrations (SACs) to minimum inhibitory concentration for 90% of isolates (MIC(90)) ratios 8 against selected pathogens.
In the past patients and doctors have often underestimated the serious nature and impact of influenza outbreaks.
Our aim was to determine current perceptions and behaviours among the general public and physicians regarding influenza illness and its treatment in the US, Japan and Europe during two influenza seasons (1999/2000 [99/00] and 2000/2001 [00/01]).
Propofol is approved both for anaesthesia and sedation during intensive care.
Serious adverse reactions with propofol have recently been reported, but patient exposure to the drug is unknown.
Dexketoprofen trometamol is an NSAID that has demonstrated good analgesic efficacy and a good safety profile after oral administration in different models of acute and chronic pain.
A new IB metered-dose inhaler (MDI) using hydrofluoroalkane 134a propellant (IB HFA) has been developed as an alternative to the MDI containing chlorofluorocarbon (IB CFC).
D-003 is a mixture of long-chain aliphatic primary acids purified from sugarcane wax with hypocholesterolaemic effects proven in rabbits and healthy volunteers; it lowers serum total cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) and increases high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C).
D-003 also prevents lipoprotein lipid peroxidation in experimental models.
Gynaecomastia and mastodynia are benign conditions, and many patients choose to tolerate them as acceptable, usually mild or moderate, adverse effects of therapy.
Recent data show that nonsteroidal antiandrogen monotherapy significantly reduces disease progression in localised and locally advanced prostate cancer, a finding that may result in wider and more long-term use of this treatment.
Therefore, both clinicians and patients may benefit from increased awareness of the options available for the management of gynaecomastia and mastodynia.
Management options, data and case studies: Management options for gynaecomastia and mastodynia are illustrated in a schematic flow diagram.
Options identified are: (1) risk reduction using pretreatment breast irradiation; (2) stopping antiandrogen therapy; (3) acceptance of gynaecomastia and/or mastodynia in the context of the significant clinical benefit of antiandrogen treatment; (4) prompt treatment (liposuction/breast tissue excision, hormonal manipulation or pain control with irradiation or analgesics); and (5) later treatment (liposuction/breast tissue excision, hormonal manipulation or pain control with irradiation or analgesics).
Where available, relevant data are discussed and the options are illustrated by case studies.
In preclinical and clinical joint replacement applications, porous tantalum has been shown to be osteoconductive and effective for biological fixation.
Relatively little research has been undertaken to investigate the porous tantalum implants for potential application in intervertebral spinal fusion.
Exercise is a widely prescribed treatment for chronic low back pain, with demonstrated effectiveness for improving function and work.
Elevated temperature worsens injury in experimental focal and global ischemia and brain trauma.
Conventional means of treating fever are not very effective in this population.
Congruent perceptions between groups pinpointed the following: A limited accessibility of services, a lack of flexibility and coordination of services, a disregard for health promotion of caregivers and a lack of preventive services.
Transportation problems and geographical distance to access services were specific to rural area.
Novogen Ltd, North Ryde NSW, Australia, provided partial support including provision of tablets and outside monitoring.
Task Force Sight and Life, Basel, Switzerland.
QLRT-1999-00155.
The study was supported by grants from the NH &amp; MRC and Raine Medical Research Foundation, Australia.
This study was supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, Republic of China (NSC-91-2320-B-040-023).
: Horticultural Development Council, Fresh Produce Consortium, ASDA, Co-operative Group, Safeway, Sainsbury, Somerfield, Tesco and Birds Eye Wall's.
The Otago Medical Research Foundation (Laurenson Award).
Healtheries (New Zealand) provided the supplements.
Epidemiologic studies have shown that habitual sleeping patterns are associated with all-cause mortality risk.
However, sleep duration may be affected by physical, mental, or social conditions, and its impact on health may differ depending on the time or place.
Endogenous pancreatic islets are supported by a dense sinusoidal capillary system which is disrupted following isolation and culture in vitro.
Although a blood flow is established in islet grafts within 1-2 weeks, these islets show poor development of intra-islet capillaries.
To improve the revascularization process and the arrangement of the new blood vessels, islet production of the factors governing these processes needs to be further characterized.
Merkel cell carcinoma is an aggressive cutaneous tumor without clearly defined treatment and high propensity for metastasis.
The optimal clinical surveillance is ensured daily by a private nurse and the treating physician.
An assessment every 2 to 3 days in a hospital unit is recommended.
CARE NETWORKS: Their development should increase and hence create the continuity between the hospital and the town.
Participants discussed three concepts--context, level of reporting and data; and Dissemination: Mechanisms discussed include the Internet, media and directly to health care providers.
The investigation revealed that contact with the bat must have occurred while the child was sleeping.
Following the search for close contacts of the reference case, rabies postexposure prophylaxis (RPEP) was recommended to 59 people (3 household contacts, 12 playmates and 44 health care workers).
Current support is from the Food Standards Agency.
Current support is from the Food Standards Agency.
The data collection phase of this study was supported by a grant from the Procter and Gamble Company, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
Fonterra, Wellington; New Zealand.
National Institutes of Health, US.
The New Zealand White rabbit model for posterolateral lumbar fusion is commonly used for spinal fusion research.
Operative complications are in part the result of inadequate knowledge of normal rabbit lumbar spine anatomy.
Although the New Zealand White (NZW) rabbit model has been increasingly used for spinal fusion research, reported complication rates have been as high as 23%.
The substantial animal morbidity and mortality associated with the model makes experimentation inefficient and can lead to faulty data analysis.
Operative complications are in part the result of suboptimal execution of the experimental protocol.
Surgery for adult spinal deformity may require both an anterior and posterior approach in order to stabilize the spine and achieve the desired correction.
These procedures can be associated with significant pulmonary complications, including atelectasis, pneumonia and respiratory failure.
The etiology of some of the respiratory complications is clear: poor inspiratory effort from incision pain and previous pulmonary disease.
However, for many patients the direct cause of these complications is not obvious.
The new method of three-dimensional (3D) electroanatomic mapping was presented as an important tool for cardiac imaging and intervention.
We present herein the first use of this technology for the monitoring, analysis, and development of cardiac surgery at the preclinical stage.
Antimicrobial resistance is a global problem with serious implications for modern medicine.
Education of the public is essential for reducing patient pressure on GPs and subsequent inappropriate prescribing.
Evaluation of educational interventions is necessary to assess their impact on public knowledge and attitudes.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of a health information website, part of the National electronic Library of Infection, on user knowledge and attitudes.
This research was funded by the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Ontario (Grant #T4946).
TNO Nutrition and Food Research was assigned by Roquette Frres to perform the study.
Danish Medical Research Council (Grant no.
22-01-0390), Center of Advanced Food Research (Copenhagen, Denmark) (Grant no.
KVL-R-2001-107), the Danish Heart Association (Grant no.
99-2-3-45-22748), Novozymes (Bagsvaerd, Denmark), Aarhus Olie (Aarhus, Denmark), and from private sources.
The experimental fats were provided by Pronova Biocare (Aalesund, Norway) and Aarhus Olie (Aarhus, Denmark).
: The Ministry of Health and Medical Education, IR Iran.
The Dutch 'Praeventiefonds'.
Long-term use of cyclosporine (CsA) contributes to post-transplant cardiovascular disease (CVD).
We analyzed the effects of 50% CsA dose reduction on the CVD risk profile in stable KTR.
The tumor protein p53-induced nuclear protein 1 (TP53INP1) gene was found using DNA microarray technology as an overexpressed gene in acute pancreatitis.
However, expression of TP53INP1 in chronic pancreatitis has not been previously reported.
Australian Research Council (small grants scheme).
Danish Medical Research Council, Danish Centre for Evaluation and Health Technology Assessment, and Danish Heart Foundation.
The current epidemiologic data on hyperhidrosis are scarce and insufficient to provide precise prevalence or impact estimates.
These studies were supported by the Thrasher Research Fund, SmithKline Beecham and Hatch-Wisconsin Agricultural Experiment Station number WIS04533.
Families, data analysts, clinicians, and administrators all have important roles to play.
Residents must be able to effectively access and use system resources to provide care that is of optimal value.
SIRS/sepsis, experimental studies.
The IIR can be categorized as a complex system that responds to interventions in a nonintuitive fashion, leading to difficulty in translating basic science knowledge into effective treatments for SIRS/MOF.
It is proposed that ABM is particularly well suited to examining the complex interactions of the IIR and its disordered states of SIRS/MOF.
Current American Heart Association guidelines call for continuous manual chest compressions for cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
Chest compressions maintain critical levels of forward blood flow, including blood flow to the myocardium during cardiac arrest, to allow for successful resuscitation.
The demand on rescuers is to ensure that compression is consistent, with appropriate force and depth, often under difficult conditions of rescue, evacuation, and transport.
It is also of great moment that fatigue of the rescuer adversely affects outcomes.
This evaluation was to compare two pneumatically driven devices, the Michigan Thumper (Michigan Instruments, Grand Rapids, MI), as an industrial standard, and the miniaturized chest compressor.
Hemorrhagic shock secondary to trauma is associated with poor survival.
Pediatric hemodynamics, anatomy, and physiology differ from adults.
In the past, cancer patients entering phase 1 studies confronted the prospects of high risk and unlikely benefit.
Over the last decade, cancer drugs under development have become more targeted, and the clinical research environment has become more scrutinized.
Intussusception in adults is rare, accounting for 0.1% of adult hospital admissions.
In contrast to this, it is the leading cause of obstruction in children.
In up to 90% of adults a cause can usually be found, but in children this is rarely the case.
Oral lyophilized extracts of bacteria species have been used since the early 1970s to improve symptoms and to prevent exacerbations in COPD patients.
We previously established an experimental model of malignant femoral tumors by transplanting VX2 carcinoma into the femur, and we have reported the efficacy of chemical embolic therapy, radiotherapy and hyperthermal therapy in treating the tumors in the model.
The Lumbar I/F Cage is a carbon fiber reinforced polymer (CFRP) device designed to separate the mechanical and device functions of interbody fusion.
Since then, the Lumbar I/F Cage device has become widely used in the United States.
Many factors over which there may be little control may influence the response of a patient to therapy.
However, therapy with antibiotics can be readily optimised.
NYHA functional class, 2. patient self-evaluation symptom class) and 6 objective parameters (3. body weight, 4. pulmonary congestion, 5. previous 24-hour diuresis, 6. serum creatinine, 7. oral HF medication, 8. intravenous HF medication).
Definition of clinical effectiveness: improvement in &gt; or = 1 subjective parameters plus improvement in &gt; or = 1 objective parameters, with all other parameters unchanged.
Resistance of bacteria to antibiotics and disinfectants has been reported widely in the world.
Listeria monocytogenes is no exception, although normally it tends to be variably sensitive to many antibiotics and disinfectants.
The American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to sponsor continuing medical education for physicians.
The ASCCP designates this continuing medical education activity for 1 credit hour Category I of the Physician's Recognition Award of the American Medical Association.
Credit is available for those who choose to apply.
The Home Study Course is planned and produced in accordance with the ACCME's Essential Areas and Elements.
The American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians.
The ASCCP designates this continuing medical education activity for 1 hour Category I credit of the Physician's Recognition Award of the American Medical Association.
Credit is available for those who choose to apply.
The Home Study Course is planned and produced in accordance with the ACCME's Essential Areas and Elements.
The American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology (ASCCP) is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians.
The ASCCP designates this continuing medical education activity for 1 credit hour in Category I of the Physician's Recognition Award of the American Medical Association.
Credit is available for those who choose to apply.
The Home Study Course is planned and produced in accordance with the ACCME's Essential Areas and Elements.
Faculty must disclose any significant financial interest or relationship with proprietary entities that may have a direct relationship to the subject matter.
For this course, neither author had any such relationship to report.
Private practitioners play a vital role in meeting the health needs of rural communities.
However, the prospect of operating a private practice business in rural Australia seems to be increasingly unattractive, because many communities are forced to recruit salaried or overseas-trained doctors.
This study focuses on rural practices as businesses whose viability influences their attractiveness for the recruitment and retention of practitioners.
Australia has a rapidly ageing population, especially in rural areas, and strategies to address medicines and the elderly are particularly relevant.
Internationally, musculoskeletal conditions are a major morbidity issue for Indigenous populations and the social and economic burden imposed by musculoskeletal complaints is significant.
However, little is known about the prevalence and associated pain and impairment of musculoskeletal conditions among rural Indigenous Australians.
The need to build capacity in rural health research is recognized in Canada.
The present project report gives an overview of the results, documenting the current strengths, but also the noticeable gaps that exist.
Adults frequently rely on self-treatment modalities to relieve pain that exceeds everyday kinds of pain, such as minor headaches and toothaches.
Examples of self-treatment modalities include doctor-prescribed analgesics, non-prescribed over-the counter medications, herbal substances and treatments, and non-drug treatments such as heat, cold and exercise.
Many adults also use a variety of self-treatment modalities without informing their health care providers.
This strategy provides funding to universities for the establishment of Rural Clinical Schools (RCS) on a national basis.
These students covered the 5th year curriculum with internal assessment and final examinations, in the same manner as city students.
Only the delivery was different, according to geographical location.
A small, isolated community in the south east of Australia, Malacoota, had a long-standing concern about the adequacy of their emergency medical systems.
There was no hospital, the local medical practitioners were under stress and their ambulance services were limited.
Following an approach through the local Division of General Practice in August 2002, the School of Rural Health at Monash University was invited to assist.
Since the early 1990s, Australian governments have recognised the problems of rural medical workforce recruitment and retention and have implemented a range of programs and incentives designed to improve the supply of, and access to, doctors in rural and remote areas.
Since these programs involve considerable costs to governments, some assessment of their impact on recruitment or retention is warranted.
The objective of this study is to examine the effectiveness of different recruitment and retention incentives from the perspective of the rural GP.
Reacting to demand and supply pressures, European healthcare systems are undergoing significant structural changes to the organisation and delivery of out of hours care.
Such pressures are of particular concern to rural practice.
This study compared learning opportunities for students undertaking an entire clinical year based in a rural primary care setting, a remote secondary hospital, or a traditional urban tertiary teaching hospital.
The unequal and inequitable distribution of the medical workforce between rural and urban parts of Australia has been well documented.
Commonwealth and state governments have introduced several significant initiatives in an attempt to address this imbalance, including recruitment of many overseas trained doctors.
To the best of our knowledge the status of blood lipids in these patients has rarely been investigated.
Beta-oxidation of long and very long chain fatty acyl-CoA derivatives occurs in peroxisomes, which are ubiquitous subcellular organelles of eukaryotic cells.
This pathway releases acetyl-CoA as precursor for several key molecules such as cholesterol.
Numerous enzymes participating to cholesterol and fatty acids biosynthesis pathways are co-localized in peroxisomes and some of their encoding genes are known as targets of the NFY transcriptional regulator.
However, until now no interaction between NFY transcription factor and genes encoding peroxisomal beta-oxidation has been reported.
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) are commonly used in medicine to control blood lipid disorder.
Also, the use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors has been reported to have immunosuppressive effects.
The Lp(a) lipoprotein (Lp(a)) consists of the polymorphic glycoprotein apolipoprotein(a) (apo(a)), which is attached by a disulfide bond to apolipoprotein B (apoB).
Apo(a), which has high homology with plasminogen, is present only in primates and hedgehogs.
However, transgenic mice and rabbits with high serum apo(a) levels exist.
Liver is the main site for apo(a) synthesis, but the site of removal is uncertain.
The NCEP III -ATP guidelines provide clear clinical directives for lipid management especially statins therapy in appropriate patient groups.
Compliance of primary care physicians with these guidelines especially in ambulatory care settings has been shown to be poor.
The compliance of cardiologist to these guidelines is less documented.
The response of serum cholesterol to diet may be affected by the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 polymorphism, which also is a significant predictor of variation in the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and CHD death.
Here, we test the hypothesis that the APOE polymorphism may modulate the cholesterol-raising effect of coffee.
Due to concerns over bacterial resistance toward antibiotics, reliable prophylactic treatments such as administrating anti-adhesion agents are now viewed as viable alternatives.
Malignant melanoma is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.
The pattern of tissue velocities within the right ventricle have yet to be determined and their patterns compared to the left ventricular velocities have not yet been described.
There is no previously published report on the applicability of risk stratification systems to adult cardiac patients in Saudi Arabia.
Orthotopic heart transplantation was done by the biatrial technique initially and the bicaval technique has become popular recently.
To overcome this limitation, extra length can be obtained by skeletonization of both IMAs.
We decided to prospectively assess the safety of this technique.
There are numerous investigations concerning the balance and interactions between relaxant and contractile factors regulating penile smooth muscle (arterial and trabecular) tone, the determinant of penile flaccidity or erection.
Aim.
To provide state-of-the-art knowledge on the physiology of erectile function.
Systolic pressure variation has previously been used to detect the presence of hypovolemia in mechanically ventilated patients but remains difficult to measure.
Pudendal nerve block is performed to confirm the diagnosis of pudendal neuralgia.
With the patient in the prone position, the C-arm is projected in the anteroposterior position until the pelvic inlet is visualized.
Subsequently, the ischial spine is highlighted by 5 to 15 degree ipsilateral oblique angulation of the fluoroscope.
A 25-gauge 3.5 cm needle is advanced to the tip of the ischial spine where the pudendal nerve transiently leaves the pelvis.
The pudendal nerve block is performed at this level.
The fluoroscopic beam is directed in an anteroposterior direction until the C5/6 disc is well visualized.
Subsequently, the fluoroscopic beam is rotated obliquely, ipsilateral to the side where blockade is desired.
Under real-time imaging, a single pass is made with a 25-gauge spinal needle to contact the bone.
At this point, the needle tip is contacting and resting at the junction between the uncinate process and the vertebral body.
There are no reliable means to distinguish those who use the opioids in an inappropriate manner from those who do not.
Multiple aberrant behaviors have been described to identify patients abusing opioids and using illicit drugs.
Percutaneous disc decompression using Coblation (Nucleoplasty trade mark) implements the principle of volumetric reduction to achieve disc decompression and reduce intradiscal pressure.
Epidural steroid injections (ESI) are commonly used in managing radicular pain.
The risk of complications with epidural steroids is small, with the majority of complications being non-specific.
Flushing is a known side effect of corticosteroid administration.
Over the years, there has been a shift toward the increased reliance on opioids for the treatment of chronic pain.
It is well known that some patients do not provide an appropriate history or underestimate their drug intake, and may exaggerate reported pain levels.
Two major portals are available for delivery of medication into the cervical epidural space: interlaminar and transforaminal.
The choice of which approach to use is commonly made by assessing the patient's structural pathology, one's skill in performing each procedure, and then weighing the advantages versus the risk associated with the particular technique.
Degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis is a frequent cause of disability in the elderly population.
Relatively few studies have specifically addressed the efficacy of epidural steroid injections for spinal stenosis, with success rates varying from 20% to 100%.
Therapeutic interventions utilized in managing chronic neck pain of facet joint origin include intraarticular injections, medial branch nerve blocks, and neurolysis of medial branch nerves by means of radiofrequency.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) type I is a symptom complex of severe, chronic limb pain, often associated with allodynia, vasomotor, and sudomotor changes.
Optimal management of this condition is not well understood.
The role of a traditional, comprehensive pain management program with long-term follow-up has not been evaluated.
Lumbar transforaminal epidural injections have been utilized in the treatment of radicular pain with proven success.
It was postulated that interlaminar epidural injections result in a dorsal flow of contrast while transforaminal epidural steroid injections showed good ventral flow limited to one single spinal motion segment.
There have been no published studies evaluating epidurography/contrast patterns utilizing fluoroscopy.
Transforaminal epidural steroid injection is one of the commonly employed modalities of treatment in managing nerve root pain.
However, there have been no controlled prospective evaluations of epidural and nerve root contrast distribution patterns and other aspects of fluoroscopically directed lumbosacral transforaminal epidural steroid injections.
Over the past decade granulomas have been noted to occur at or near the tip of intrathecal catheters used for spinal infusions.
Granulomas may be asymptomatic or cause significant neurological deficits.
These Guidelines cover the treatment of acute (less than three months' duration) injuries.
ASIPP's "Evidence-Based Practice Guidelines for Interventional Techniques in the Management of Chronic Spinal Pain" are comprehensive, focusing on management of chronic spinal pain.
ACOEM guidelines, mandated by the legislature, do not deal explicitly with chronic pain.
Their application in managing chronic pain may result in denial of access to appropriate treatment.
Thus, ASIPP guidelines may be supplemental to the ACOEM Guidelines.
Evaluation of the two Guidelines may clarify which should be followed in the event of ambiguity or conflict.
When a questionnaire is translated into a new language, a linguistic validation is necessary but not sufficient unless the psychometric characteristics have been verified.
However, the longer term cost implications of treatment with memantine are not known.
Several reviews have suggested that there is considerable potential for multimodal preventive interventions to cost-effectively reduce the overall burden of illness.
The use of magnetic fields to treat disease has intrigued mankind since the time of the ancient Greeks.
More recently it has been shown that electromagnetic field (EMF) treatment aids bone healing, and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) appears to be beneficial in treating schizophrenia and depression.
Since external EMFs influence internal body processes, we hypothesized that measurement of body surface EMFs might be used to detect disease states and direct the course of subsequent therapy.
However, measurement of minute body surface EMFs requires use of a sensitive and well documented magnetometer.
In this study we evaluated the sensitivity and frequency response of a fluxgate magnetometer with a triaxial probe for use in detecting body surface EMF and we compared the magnetometer readings with a signal from a Toftness Sensometer, operated by an experienced clinician, in the laboratory and in a clinical setting.
Successful outcomes of cochlear implantation in children have led to a gradual reduction in the age at which implantation is performed.
Body contouring usually involves the lower and upper abdomen, flanks, hips, and back.
Several techniques are available with which to achieve suitable simultaneous correction of all these aesthetic units.
The cutaneous sequelae resulting from mastopexy and reduction mammaplasty are serious drawbacks for patients, particularly young women, and physicians who are dissatisfied with extensive postoperative scarring.
Although current trends in breast reduction emphasize scar reduction and improved long-term results, all currently used techniques leave visible scars on the breast.
Some medical equipment manufacturers and surgeons have asserted that certain types of cannulas and other components of liposuction systems enhance the efficiency of fat aspiration.
Many methods for the correction of the inverted nipple have been described, but no consensus has been reached as to which is the best approach.
Techniques for augmentation mammaplasty commonly involve incisions through at least a portion of the pectoralis major muscle.
The effects of implant position and surgical release of the muscle origin have not been thoroughly addressed.
The Food and Drug Administration and others have also raised questions concerning informed consent, follow-up, health insurance, and related issues dealing with breast augmentation.
Traditional surgical thinking, however, has favored the performance of some procedures individually in an effort to decrease complications associated with prolonged anesthesia.
Although many techniques of reduction mammaplasty are currently in use, a prospective study quantitating the sensation of the nipple-areolar complex (NAC) after the performance of specific techniques has not been performed.
The long-term stability of the breast shape, once it is achieved, should be included among the principal concerns of aesthetic mammaplasty.
This goal presents a particular challenge to the surgeon treating a patient who is concerned with breast lift but also wants to preserve or even increase cup size.
Combined abdominoplasty and lipoplasty is fequently performed to achieve improved body contour in a single surgical session.
Despite early studies supporting the efficacy of the N-Lite laser (ICN Pharmaceuticals, Costa Mesa, CA) for nonablative treatment of facial wrinkles, clinical reports of treatment results have been disappointing.
Large area local anesthesia (LALA) has been recommended for decreasing localized pain and shortening discharge time after breast augmentation surgery.
Many face lift techniques that manipulate the superficial musculoaponeurotic system (SMAS) in order to correct a perceived descent of deeper facial structures have been presented.
However, such procedures can result in insufficient volume restoration, which may be correctable only by actual fat replacement.
Indwelling catheters for pain control after augmentation mammaplasty appear to be safe and effective.
Various methods for correction of accessory axillary breast tissue have been proposed, including simple excision, diamond-shaped excision, a Y-V technique, and lipoplasty.
Despite meticulous wound care and surgical technique, hypertrophic and keloid scars continue to develop in certain patients.
Efforts to inhibit scar formation have included the use of several agents that target essential mediators of the wound healing process.
Lynchburg Nephrology Dialysis Incorporated initiated a nightly home hemodialysis (NHHD) program in September 1997.
As of April 30, 2003, 40 patients had completed training; 28 patients were at home and 2 patients were in training.
Matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3) has been linked to osteoarticular destruction in rheumatic arthritis.
Infection is the second leading cause of death among hemodialysis (HD) patients.
Because iron overload may be a risk factor for bacterial infection, concerns about excessive use of intravenous (IV) iron have arisen.
The most commonly used formulas for hemodialysis dose are based on single-pool urea kinetics; i.e., they consider the body as a single compartment and use an ad hoc adjustment for postdialysis urea rebound.
We present a new urea kinetic modeling approach, individualized Bayesian urea kinetic modeling (IBKM), which incorporates prior knowledge.
This method uses measurements made during previous treatments to forecast a patient's postdialysis urea rebound and clearance and provides a choice of possible dialysis parameters to achieve a desired clearance goal.
The issues surrounding anemia management in patients receiving dialysis therapy are complex and widely debated.
Although numerous trials have been published, clinical practice patterns may differ, particularly in the presence of uncertainty about the optimal management of anemia in this setting.
Hemodialysis (HD)-related lower extremity (LE) muscle cramps are a common cause of morbidity in end-stage renal disease patients on maintenance HD.
Numerous pharmacologic and physical measures have been tried with variable success rates.
Rising hospital care costs have created pressure to shorten hospital stays and emphasize outpatient care.
We sought to determine whether age, helper status, or ethnicity was associated with home dialysis failure or mortality.
Lynchburg Nephrology Dialysis Incorporated started its nightly home hemodialysis (NHHD) program in September 1997.
Many synthetic polymeric membranes have been widely used for blood purification therapies for removing larger solutes and for better blood compatibility.
Historically, treatment for back pain in the United States has been a pathology-based approach; the literature supports a functional restorative approach for clinical efficacy and cost effectiveness.
Ranitidine is widely used for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in children, but optimal dosing is unclear.
Resistance to the thyroid hormone (RTH) is an inherited syndrome of reduced tissue responsiveness to hormonal action caused by mutations located in the ligand-binding domain and adjacent hinge region of the thyroid hormone receptor  (TR) gene.
As relatively expensive specialty injectable pharmaceuticals have become increasingly available, associated cost-containment challenges have grown.
PharmAnalysis Group conducted a survey to understand how managed care organizations are managing - or are planning to manage - injectable products.
Before implantable venous Doppler monitoring, by the time the failing flap was explored, thrombosis had often occurred and therefore the cause of flap flow cessation was often difficult to determine.
Adequate recipient vessels are critical for free flap success.
There are, however, situations in which the local recipient vessels are inadequate.
In these situations, vein grafts are required to allow pedicle extension to recipient vessels.
Extensor pollicis longus (EPL) tendon ruptures have been treated succesfully with the transfer of the extensor indicis proprius (EIP) tendon.
Situations exist in which, due to intraoperative observations, another tendon transfer may be considered preferable to the standard EIP transfer method.
High-voltage electrical burns involving the extremities may cause marked loss of skin and subcutaneous tissue exposing underlying bone and tendon.
Treatment of electrical burns has historically involved serial debridement with late wound closure.
Success has been reported with the use of microvascular free-flap transfer within three days of injury.
These cases provide examples of a novel adjunct to the repertoire of the reconstructive surgeon.
To inform these decisions, surgeons can use economic analyses of surgical practices.
Various clinical studies and observations demonstrate enhanced osteogenesis in patients sustaining traumatic brain injury.
The purpose of our study was to investigate humoral markers of bone metabolism during the early posttraumatic period, with special regard to traumatic brain injury.
ADP, adenosine diphosphate; ATP, adenosine triphosphate; COXI, cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 mRNA; COX, cytochrome c oxidase (protein); CREB, cyclic AMP response element binding protein; DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid; EDTA, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; EEG, electroencephalography; EMG, electromyography; GABP, GA binding protein; HEPES, 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazine-1-ethanesulfonic acid; mRNA, messenger ribonucleic acid; NADH, nicotinamid adenine dinucleotide, reduced; NDII, NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 mRNA; NRF, nuclear respiratory factor.
It offers a way of understanding the role of psychological issues that is distinct from, and is sometimes obscured by, traditional social cognitive approaches.
The approach is illustrated by the example of crying on a child protection helpline.
The way crying is built from different elements, the way these elements are organised, and the way they are receipted are all highlighted.
Crying is both performing and potentially disrupting actions.
The virtues of high quality transcription, and of understanding the way crying is situated in the turn organisations of conversation, are demonstrated.
Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) is involved in the metabolism of mercaptopurine and subject to genetic polymorphism, with heterozygous individuals having intermediate and homozygous mutant individuals having very low TPMT activity.
SK Yee Memorial Fund.
Ministero della Salute (Italy) - 'Progetto per la Salute e la Prevenzione di Malattia' 2001-2003.
Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) is now the leading cause of transfusion-associated mortality, even though it is probably still underdiagnosed and underreported.
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute convened a working group to identify areas of research needed in TRALI.
Also, another important concept is that acute lung injury temporally associated with multiple transfusions can be TRALI, because each unit of blood or blood component can carry one or more of the possible causative agents: antileukocyte antibody, biologically active substances, and other yet unidentified agents.
Autogenous vein grafts are commonly used for arterial reconstructive procedures.
Their success is limited by the development of intimal hyperplasia (IH), a fibroproliferative disease that predisposes the grafts to occlusive stenosis.
Mesenchymal cell proliferation and the deposition of an extracellular matrix characterize neointimal development.
Increasing evidence suggests that, regardless of blood vessel type, IH results from complex interactions among vessel wall cells, infiltrating leukocytes, and cytokines.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a pleiotropic cytokine with powerful effects on inflammatory cell chemotaxis; smooth muscle cell, fibroblast, and endothelial cell proliferation; and extracellular matrix synthesis.
Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1 ) is known to maintain a balance between apoptosis and cellular dysfunction and therefore may have a pivotal role in vessel remodeling during pathogenesis of vascular disorders.
We previously demonstrated that inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mediates signal transduction in vascular wall during the development of varicose veins.
The clinical validity of using computed tomography (CT) to diagnose peripheral pulmonary embolism is uncertain.
Insufficient sensitivity for peripheral pulmonary embolism is considered the principal limitation of CT.
Development of formal systems of critical care follow-up is an essential expansion of critical care services.
The impact of critical illness and intensive care services extends beyond the temporal and physical confines of critical care units.
With the exception of neonatalogy, however, follow-up assessment and services have traditionally been provided through primary care or targeted subspecialist referral.
As patient mortality rates decrease, intensivists have recognized the need to focus on alternative, patient-centered outcomes.
Models of care with collaboration between critical care and rehabilitation services have developed, recognizing the unique skills and contributions of critical care continuity.
Critical care follow-up, however, is not standard of care.
The Norwegian Cancer Society (E 04038/006).
World Health Organization, Nestle Foundation, UNICEF.
Adjuvant chemotherapy with new cytotoxic agents for breast cancer must be properly assessed for toxicity.
The ability to perform clinical procedures safely is a key skill for health care professionals.
We have developed quasi-clinical scenarios, where inanimate models attached to simulated patients provide a convincing learning environment.
Procedures are rated by expert observers and by the 'patient' and recorded for subsequent review.
An innovative portable digital recording device (the 'Virtual Chaperone') is evaluated for use in clinical settings.
Doctors have high levels of self-treatment, investigation and referral, but little is known about how medical students seek health care.
The pivotal role of inflammation and edema across the spectrum of central nervous system injury has driven extensive investigation into the therapeutic potential of glucocorticoids.
More serious hepatic involvement has been well documented but is rare.
However, the efficacy of the latter on oxygen transport, tissue oxygenation, and survival in the treatment of extreme methemoglobinemia is ambiguous.
Capecitabine is currently being evaluated for the treatment of a variety of gastrointestinal malignancies.
However, the effect of prone positioning on clinical outcomes in children is not known.
Any intervention that falls within the EPOC scope (See Group Details) and that includes patient reminder or recall systems, or both, in at least one arm of the study.
Computed tomography DICOM images analysis allows a quantitative measurement of organ weight, volume and specific gravity in humans.
The treatment of recurrent pleural effusion or recurrent pneumothorax frequently involves the creation of a pleurodesis.
Ultrasound is being used more frequently to assess the presence of pleural fluid or pneumothorax.
The absence of a gliding sign is indicative of a pneumothorax.
The majority of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) patients (about 80%) will be treated as outpatients, because therapy with a single agent will work.
For the remaining 20% of patients requiring hospitalization, there is some growing debate regarding the efficacy of different management approaches.
For hospitalized patients, monotherapy with a respiratory fluoroquinolone agent seems to be gaining popularity, but dual therapy combining a beta-lactam and an advanced macrolide still represents a good choice.
Indeed, this regimen was recommended for all of the inpatient categories in the latest Infectious Disease Society of America CAP guidelines in 2003.
Two recent reports from the Institute of Medicine cited cross-cultural training as a mechanism to address racial and ethnic disparities in health care, but little is known about residents' educational experience in this area.
Over the last decade, the primary care specialties have experienced an ebb and flow in popularity.
A description of the future primary care workforce may inform planning for the health care needs of our population.
Vertebral compression fractures can cause deformity, pain, and disability.
PMMA has several disadvantages such as potential thermal necrosis and monomer toxicity.
Calcium sulfate cement (CSC) is nontoxic, osteoconductive, and bioabsorbable.
From 1980 we changed to insect venoms.
CHD is a common cause of death and a significant cause of morbidity in Ireland.
Secondary prevention has been recommended as a key strategy for reducing levels of CHD mortality and general practice has been highlighted as an ideal setting for secondary prevention initiatives.
The review literature recommends structured programmes with continued support and follow-up of patients; the provision of training, tailored to practice needs of access to evidence of effectiveness of secondary prevention; structured recall programmes that also take account of individual practice needs; and patient-centred consultations accompanied by attention to disease management guidelines.
None.
Physician-scientists play a unique and critical role in medical research.
Physician-scientists were declining in number and were getting older.
A variety of factors were thought to contribute to this problem, including increasing indebtedness of medical school graduates caused by rapidly rising medical school tuition costs.
Many prior studies have suggested that the majority of deaths in severe acute pancreatitis occur late in the course of the disease as a result of pancreatic sepsis or pancreatic septic-like syndrome.
This is the first international collaborative genetic study among Filipinos with FH.
Collaborative efforts will lead to more effective detection, treatment and prevention of CV events.
Novel mutations were discovered and further analysis of these genes will be done.
The Inter-Association Task Force for the Appropriate Care of the Spine-Injured Athlete recommends leaving a football player's helmet in place and removing the face mask from the helmet "as quickly as possible and with as little movement of the head and neck as possible."
Although 2 groups have studied face-mask removal from new equipment, to our knowledge no researchers have investigated equipment that has been previously used.
A full season of play may have a significant effect on football equipment and its associated hardware.
Countless impacts, weather, playing surfaces, sweat, and other unforeseen or unknown variables might make the face-mask removal process more difficult on equipment that has been used.
Delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS) describes muscle pain and tenderness that typically develop several hours postexercise and consist of predominantly eccentric muscle actions, especially if the exercise is unfamiliar.
Although DOMS is likely a symptom of eccentric-exercise-induced muscle damage, it does not necessarily reflect muscle damage.
Some prophylactic or therapeutic modalities may be effective only for alleviating DOMS, whereas others may enhance recovery of muscle function without affecting DOMS.
Sport massage is often used to help prepare for exercise, expedite recovery from muscle soreness, and enhance athletic performance.
However, the effect of sport massage on recovery from delayed-onset muscle soreness is unknown.
Muscle fatigue is generally categorized in 2 ways: that caused by peripheral weakness (peripheral fatigue) and that caused by a progressive failure of voluntary neural drive (central fatigue).
Numerous variables have been studied in conjunction with fatigue protocols, including postural stability, maximum voluntary contraction force, and reaction time.
When torque recordings fall below 50% of a maximum voluntary contraction, the muscle is described as fatigued, but whether this value is a good indicator of fatigue has not been studied.
Short-term strict immobilization of the arm using a cast enhances recovery of muscle function after eccentric exercise.
Contralateral muscular imbalances have been suggested to increase the risk of lower extremity injury.
To assist athletes in maintaining optimal health, athletic trainers must work with athletes of both sexes.
Many athletes have difficulty breathing during or after athletic events and practices.
Although a wide variety of conditions can predispose an athlete to breathing difficulties, the most common cause is undiagnosed or uncontrolled asthma.
At least 15% to 25% of athletes may have signs and symptoms suggestive of asthma, including exercise-induced asthma.
Athletic trainers are in a unique position to recognize breathing difficulties caused by undiagnosed or uncontrolled asthma, particularly when asthma follows exercise.
Once the diagnosis of asthma is made, the athletic trainer should play a pivotal role in supervising therapies to prevent and control asthma symptoms.
It is also important for the athletic trainer to recognize when asthma is not the underlying cause for respiratory difficulties, so that the athlete can be evaluated and treated properly.
Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular tumor in adults, leading to metastasis in 40% of the cases and ultimately to death in 10 years, despite local and/or systemic treatment.
The c-kit protein (CD117) is a membrane-bound tyrosine kinase receptor and its overexpression has been observed in several neoplasms.
Imatinib mesylate is a FDA approved compound that inhibits tyrosine quinase receptors, as well as c-kit.
Imatinib mesylate controls tumor growth in up to 85% of advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors, a neoplasia resistant to conventional therapy.
There is little reported experience of radiofrequency ablation of pancreatic tumours.
Our group has reported the development of a porcine pancreatic model of radiofrequency ablation of the pancreas.
Aerosolized antifungal therapy is a promising route of drug delivery for pulmonary aspergillosis due to attainment of high localized concentrations.
Caspofungin, a new antifungal agent with proven efficacy against invasive aspergillosis, has ideal potential for aerosolization.
Supported in part by CAPES and FAEPA.
Sheffield Teaching Hospital NHS Trust.
Meat Research Corporation of Australia.
The care of the acutely ill patient in hospital is often sub-optimal.
The aim of this study was to use consensus techniques to identify the core competencies in the care of acutely ill or arrested adult patients that medical students should possess at the point of graduation.
Neoprene sleeves are alleged to increase heat in skeletal muscle, but no published research supports this belief.
Ice bags "to go" are a common practice in athletic training.
The amount of retained ankle flexibility gains and the effects of diathermy on those gains are unclear.
Although isotonic and isokinetic exercises are commonly used in sports medicine and rehabilitation, studies comparing their effects on the neuromuscular system have provided conflicting results.
Exercise in the heat produces cellular conditions that may leave skeletal muscle susceptible to exercise-induced microdamage.
Delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS) is a clinical model of contraction-induced skeletal muscle injury.
Athletic trainers surveyed in 1999 demonstrated little consensus on the use of concussion grading scales and return-to-play criteria.
Most relied on clinical examination or symptom checklists to evaluate athletes with concussion.
For optimal clinical education of athletic training students, Clinical Instructor Educators and program directors need to proactively select, train, and evaluate their Approved Clinical Instructors (ACIs).
This ability may be influenced by the preconceived attitudes and expectations of athletes, athletes' parents, athletic directors, physical therapists, physicians, and coaches.
The athlete lost 8.1 kg during the first 20 days of training, and we initially suspected an eating disorder.
The sports medicine team interviewed the athlete and found she did not have psychological symptoms indicative of an eating disorder.
Celiac disease is a common intestinal disorder that is often confused with other conditions.
It causes severe intestinal damage manifested by several uncomfortable signs and symptoms.
Failure by the sports medicine staff to recognize symptoms consistent with celiac disease and treat them appropriately can have deleterious consequences for the athlete.
Impaired perfusion of the corpora cavernosa is considered an important causal factor of erectile dysfunction (ED) in the aging male with atherosclerosis.
Aim.
Lack of awareness, on the workers side, on their "right to know" about personal risk.
Importance of a technical discussion, promoted by the Genoa Province Administration, intended for the exchange of information, for providing support to decisions, for comparing opinions about the effectiveness of the implemented precautionary measures and for interpreting results.
The following interventions were carried out: revision of job procedures, job methods and Risk Assessment Document; training and information about the employees' risk, edited by the firm's Service for Prevention and Protection (SPP) and by a physician indicated by the firm; PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), revision by the SPP.
A significant minority of otherwise healthy adults may suffer from disordered breathing during sleep.
The commonest problem, known as Obstructive Sleep Apnoea Syndrome (OSAS), results in poor quality sleep, daytime hypersomnolence and excess risk of road traffic crashes.
It is also associated with occupational injuries.
Common deficiencies are thought to include under-diagnosis, mis-diagnosis and sub-optimal treatment.
: House dust mite (HDM) allergen is one of the most common allergens to which asthma patients are sensitised.
Use of HDM-impermeable bed covers reduces exposure to HDM allergen.
British Thoracic Society (BTS) guidelines for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) management are a consensus view and their impact on patients is unknown.
The Eastern Region Confidential Enquiry into asthma deaths started in 2001.
It incorporates the Norwich and East Anglian Enquiries started in 1988 and 1992, respectively.
The aim of this study was to analyse all asthma deaths in the Eastern region between 2001 and 2003, to elicit any factors contributing to the patients' deaths, and to make comparisons with the previous Norwich and East Anglian data.
Facet joint interventions are used frequently for managing chronic spinal pain.
Evidence continues to accumulate supporting the clinical effectiveness of these procedures and defining potential complications.
The sacroiliac joint is an accepted source of low back pain with or without associated lower extremity symptoms.
The diagnosis and management of sacroiliac joint pain and the role of interventional techniques have been controversial.
Epidural steroid injections are commonly used for chronic spinal pain.
However, there is no conclusive evidence regarding their effectiveness, and debate continues as to their value in managing chronic spinal pain.
Osteitis pubis is an aseptic painful inflammatory condition of the symphysis pubis, surrounding muscles, and tendons.
It was first described in 1924 in patients who had suprapubic surgery.
Inflammation and trauma have been attributed to be causative factors in previous individual case reports and small case series.
Osteitis pubis is frequently misdiagnosed and is difficult to treat once it becomes chronic.
Constriction of the sciatic nerve by loose ligation produces an inflammatory neuropathic injury.
This represents an animal model for peripheral mononeuropathy.
Oxygen-derived free radicals are suspected to play an important role in the pathogenesis of ischemia/reperfusion injury, leading to neurogenic inflammation.
Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) has been used anecdotally to treat clinically similar conditions in humans, but specific effects on the animal model have not been well studied.
Discography has been widely used in the lumbar and cervical spine as a diagnostic tool to identify sources of discogenic pain that may be amenable to surgical treatment.
Enthesopathies are a common cause of axial pain that is amenable to "minimally invasive" therapy.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is characterized by pain that is out of proportion to the injury and is regional in distribution.
A critical factor in central sensitization seems to be the release of the magnesium block on the NMDA receptor with influx of calcium and initiation of intracellular cascades.
Current literature supports the effectiveness of ketamine in blocking central sensitization through its effects on the NMDA receptor.
Interventional techniques are now an integral part of chronic pain management.
As new procedures are arising at a rapid pace, decisions regarding patient safety and comfort are becoming more challenging.
No peri-procedural consensus protocol currently addresses issues such as 1. nulla per os (NPO) status, 2. sedation, 3. monitoring, or 4. recovery.
In establishing safety guidelines for interventional pain procedures, the knowledge of current peri-procedural protocols is required.
The intervertebral disc has been implicated as an etiology of chronic spine pain based on clinical, basic science, and epidemiological research.
Unfortunately, there is no way to determine with absolute certainty whether or not the disc is a spinal pain generator.
Recent advances in the neurobiology of pain processing further underscore the possibility that we may never know the source of a patient's pain.
At our current level of understanding, from an empirical standpoint, discography is thought of as the best tool to evaluate disc-related pain.
Chronic refractory spinal pain poses a peculiar diagnostic challenge because of multiple putative pain sources, overlapping clinical features, and nonspecific radiologic findings.
Diagnostic injection techniques are employed to isolate the source(s) of pain.
Diagnostic facet joint injections are expected to meet the cardinal features of a diagnostic test (i.e., accuracy, safety and reproducibility).
Accuracy must be compared with a "gold" or criterion standard that can confirm presence or absence of a disease.
There is, however, no available gold standard, such as biopsy, to measure presence or absence of pain.
Transforaminal epidural injections, or selective nerve root blocks, are used for a myriad of different spinal disorders.
A clear consensus on the use of selective nerve root injections as a diagnostic tool does not currently exist.
Additionally, the effectiveness of this procedure as a diagnostic tool is not clear.
In most cases, this procedure affords significant pain relief and strengthens the bone.
Prior to beginning treatment, patients are given this information and allowed the opportunity to ask questions.
Over the years, several hypotheses have been proposed.
This phenomenon, however, has been well documented for other fluoroscopically-guided, contrast-enhanced spinal injections.
The need exists for more definitive clinical signs indicative of abnormal central pain processing following a whiplash injury.
The evaluation of allodynia in the thoracic spine in a whiplash injured population may assist in the clinical diagnosis of patients believed to be suffering from central nervous system hypersensitivity.
For the purpose of reducing inflammation causing radiculopathy, lumbar transforaminal and interlaminar epidural injections deliver corticosteroid to the vicinity of the spinal nerve, nerve roots, and intervertebral disc.
Although acceptable, the efficacy of transforaminal injections is limited and variable.
This extended exposure to corticosteroid may benefit the site of pathology.
In recent years, transforaminal epidural injections have emerged as an alternative to interlaminar and caudal epidural steroid injections.
The rationale for utilizing transforaminal epidural injections has been described for diagnostic as well as therapeutic purposes.
However, these techniques are also associated with rare, but catastrophic, neurologic complications.
Meralgia paresthetica is a clinical syndrome of pain, dysesthesia or both, in the anterolateral thigh.
It is associated with an entrapment mononeuropathy of the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve.
Diagnosis of meralgia paresthetica is typically made clinically and is based on the characteristic location of pain or dysesthesia, sensory abnormality on exam, and absence of any other neurological abnormality in the leg.
This case report identifies a patient with complex regional pain syndrome Type 2 (causalgia) with sympathetically maintained pain in a distal extremity associated with an anterior sacroiliac fusion with local bone graft.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been proposed as first-choice drugs for antihypertensive therapy in elderly subjects because of their demonstrated efficacy and safety.
However, no information is currently available on the use of zofenopril in elderly hypertensive patients.
Meloxicam is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent used widely in therapeutics.
It is mainly metabolised by the cytochrome P450 enzyme (CYP) 2C9, with minor involvement of CYP3A4.
So far, no information on the oral pharmacokinetics of this drug in adult Mexicans is available.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the oral pharmacokinetics of meloxicam in Mexican subjects.
Peripheral vestibular disorders frequently lead to the manifestation of symptoms of vertigo.
The objective of this study was to compare tramadol pharmacokinetics and intra- and intersubject variability after replicate single-dose administrations of a multiple-units SR formulation (capsule) and a single-unit formulation (tablet).
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterised by chronic progressive airway obstruction and inflammation.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is the cause of approximately 10-12% of all deaths occurring in hospitalised patients.
An intravenous (IV) formulation of esomeprazole has been developed as an alternative to oral administration.
To meet the needs of different clinical situations it would be preferable if an IV dose could be administered as either an injection or an infusion, while producing similar effects.
Motion palpation has been used as a diagnostic tool for vertebral subluxation, even though its reliability is questionable.
Standardisation of palpation has proven substantially more reliable.
Although practice protocols exist for SMT and functional rehabilitation, no practice protocols exist for structural rehabilitation.
Traditional chiropractic practice guidelines have been limited to acute and chronic pain treatment, with limited inclusion of functional and exclusion of structural rehabilitation procedures.
The effect of altered gait on body mechanics presents a stress on patient's sacroiliac joints (SIJ).
The gait of the patient is this case report is altered because of a transtibial amputation with prosthesis; he also has a foot drop orthotic.
The equity of prescribing is of central importance in the area of therapeutics since it explores the interface between those patients who should and those who actually do receive a drug therapy.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common disorder in developed countries, with the usual treatment being medication.
Previously, lifestyle modification was the only treatment for GERD; however, its effectiveness has not been assessed.
Prevention of medication errors is a priority for health services worldwide.
Pharmacists routinely screen prescriptions for potential problems, including prescribing errors.
This study describes prescribing problems reported by community pharmacists and discusses them from an error prevention perspective.
Subjective outcome assessment instruments may be used to determine whether changes occur as a result of a particular treatment intervention.
Since 1991, 11 outcome assessment instruments either specific to or validated for use with cervical spine pathologies have been developed and their psychometric properties critically assessed.
Though a systematic review of this subject was published in 2002, it included an analysis of only 5 measures available at that time.
Conditions of the hand and wrist often occur in older patients, but decision-making algorithms and manual treatment protocols for this age group have not been developed or assessed.
Further, effects of age-related co-morbidities are poorly understood.
Public health-related topics comprise less than 2% of chiropractic coursework at most chiropractic colleges, and few connections currently exist between chiropractic and public health practice.
The concept of well-ness is common to both, and might serve to bridge the gap between the individual health services provided by chiropractors and the community health services provided by public health agencies.
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency is one of the most common autosomal recessive disorders.
Many issues in the management of CAH in children still remain unresolved.
Researchers have a moral responsibility to offer to return research results to participants, but the needs and attitudes of parents and adolescents with cancer in paediatric oncology regarding the issue are relatively unknown.
The current discussions surrounding the German health care system are being determined and defined by the concepts of "profitability", "efficiency" and "saving".
These concepts also determine the demands made on this system and have had an effect on the medical profession.
The economy's growing influence on physicians' decision-making and the increasing necessity to look at and regulate services under economic aspects arising from the need to save costs are seen by the medical profession as a threat to its autonomous conduct and freedom to make decisions, in other words it sees it as a danger to its medical orientation.
In three cardiac rehabilitation hospitals all patients were screened for mental distress at admission.
Both psychometric questionnaires and structured psychodiagnostic interviews are used to identify medically-ill inpatients requiring psychotherapeutic treatment.
Various approaches have been advocated and no large prospective studies are available on this subject.
The question therefore arises whether the A1166C polymorphism constitutes a hereditary risk factor of survival after an acute myocardial infarction.
Everolimus is a sirolimus analogue with similar efficacy in animal models, and has been previously successfully tested in humans using an erodable polymer.
Recent reports document 40-50% cost-effectiveness for percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) compared to IBS.
The literature suggests appropriate initial treatment for critical limb ischemia (CLI) to be IBS = 38%, PTA = 28%, and PA = 16%.
The encouraging 6-month Laser Angioplasty for Critical Limb Ischemia (LACI) 93% limb salvage rate prompted an independent CLI and LACI clinical and economic analysis.
Fractional flow reserve (FFR) is correlated with angiographic and intravascular ultrasound assessments of stent placement.
Post-stenting FFR has been described as a good predictor of clinical events after 6 months.
The aim of our study is to evaluate the feasibility and efficiency of septal artery embolization with microcoils.
Despite the rapid changes of interventional cardiology, long-term follow-up studies are useful for identifying its limitations and indicating future changes.
Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS), the current gold standard to optimize stent placement is expensive, not widely available, and needs expertise for interpretation.
The composition of atherosclerotic coronary plaque is a major determinant of future clinical events.
Spectral analysis of IVUS radiofrequency data has demonstrated potential to provide detailed quantitative information on plaque composition.
Vessel tortuosity remains an important limiting factor in percutaneous coronary intervention.
In interventional cardiology an increasing demand to treat complex coronary lesions (i.e.
distal lesions, tortuous vessels, chronic occlusions) has developed within the last years.
New devices to fulfill this demand are therefore needed.
A system where the operator can remotely navigate the wire and device during PCI may improve operator safety and convenience and can possibly enhance procedural precision.
Cholesteatoma is characterized by the accumulation of keratinizing epithelium resulting from the proliferation and differentiation of epithelium.
Researchers are presently unraveling the role that apoptosis plays in the disease seen in cholesteatoma epithelium.
Caspases play a key role in apoptosis.
The natural course of HIV disease progression among resource-poor patient populations has not been clearly defined.
Over the past few years, reports of emergence and transmission of drug-resistant strains of HIV have increased, especially in western countries.
HIV-1 is a neurotropic virus.
In a resource-limited country such as India, large populations of affected patients now have access to adequate chemoprophylaxis for opportunistic infections (OIs), allowing them to live longer.
Unfortunately the poor availability of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has allowed viral replication to proceed unchecked.
A clear, practical, Canadian guideline for the management of these patients has been lacking.
The authors reviewed the types and phases of validity of psychiatric diagnosis.
In 1970, Robins and Guze proposed five phases to achieve valid classification of mental disorders: clinical description, laboratory study, exclusion of other disorders, follow-up study, and family study.
1 Pelvic floor muscle exercises.
2 PFME instruction and a PFME program's components, such as educational materials, feedback (including biofeedback, e.g.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:
Gynecologists have long used a vaginal incision for surgical treatment of pelvic pathology.
More recently, however, laparoscopy has allowed gynecologists and other specialists to replace laparotomy with minimally invasive surgical techniques.
Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is rapidly gaining acceptance as a diagnostic tool for staging breast cancer.
Herbal tea made with Annonaceae leaves (containing benzyltetrahydroisoquinolines (Be-TIQ), tetrahydroprotoberberines (THPB) and acetogenins (potent mitochondrial complex I inhibitors) are commonly used on Guadeloupe.
: Of 265 patients studied on Guadeloupe, 66 (25%) had PD, and 199 (75%) had atypical parkinsonism.
This latter group includes 58 patients (29%) with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and 100 patients (50%) with unclassifiable parkinsonism (UP).
: Numerous organic solvents applied in industry, like toluene, styrene, xylene and n-hexane have been demonstrated to impair hearing in animals.
However, the effects of exposure to a given organic solvent and the interaction of noise and solvents on hearing in humans are still not fully recognized.
Seventy-seven percent of a cohort last examined at 42 months of age using the Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children were reexamined with the same test at 72 months.
At this point, and contrary to the results at 30 and 42 months no adverse PCB-effects were found.
However, the positive effect of the home environment became even more pronounced.
Excessive production of reactive oxygen species has been observed following acute and chronic exposure to radiation in animal models which can lead to several detrimental and irreversible outcomes in vital organs.
Rheumatic diseases are characterized by chronic inflammation with systemic involvement and are often accompanied by functional limitation and depression.
Their effect on sexual response has been little studied.
Few studies have examined musculoskeletal manifestations after allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT).
Chondroitin sulfate (CS) and hyaluronic acid (HA) are used in the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis (OA).
Cholagenase-1 (MMP-1) and stromelysin-1 (MMP-3), are responsible for degradation of the extracellular matrix in OA.
Few studies have determined the in vitro effect of CS and HA on MMP-1 synthesis and that of HA on MMP-3 expression in human OA chondrocyte culture.
In the literature reviewed, there were no studies evaluating the effect of CS on MMP-3.
Chronic HF results from any structural or functional cardiac disorder that impairs the ability of the heart to act as a pump.
It is estimated that 1% to 5% of the general population (all ages) in Europe have chronic HF.
A recent study revealed 28,702 patients were hospitalized for first-time HF in Ontario between April 1994 and March 1997.
(3) Women comprised 51% of the cohort.
Eighty-five percent were aged 65 years or older, and 58% were aged 75 years or older.
No symptoms with ordinary exertion.CLASS II: Slight limitations of physical activity.
Ordinary activity causes symptoms.CLASS III: Marked limitation of physical activity.
Less than ordinary activity causes symptoms.
Asymptomatic at rest.CLASS IV: Inability to carry out any physical activity without discomfort.
These patients do not survive to enter the pool of those with "chronic" HF.
Treatment for chronic HF includes lifestyle management, drugs, cardiac surgery, or implantable pacemakers and defibrillators.
Despite pharmacologic advances, which include diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers, spironolactone, and digoxin, many patients remain symptomatic on maximally tolerated doses.
SUDDEN CARDIAC DEATH IS CAUSED BY THE SUDDEN ONSET OF FATAL ARRHYTHMIAS, OR ABNORMAL HEART RHYTHMS: ventricular tachycardia (VT), a rhythm abnormality in which the ventricles cause the heart to beat too fast, and ventricular fibrillation (VF), an abnormal, rapid and erratic heart rhythm.
About 80% of fatal arrhythmias are associated with ischemic heart disease, which is caused by insufficient blood flow to the heart.
Management of VT and VF with antiarrhythmic drugs is not very effective; for this reason, nonpharmacological treatments have been explored.
One such treatment is the ICD.
Quality refers to the criteria such as the adequacy of allocation concealment, blinding and follow-up.
If there is important unexplained inconsistency in the results, our confidence in the estimate of effect for that outcome decreases.
Directness refers to the extent to which the people interventions and outcome measures are similar to those of interest.
For example, there may be uncertainty about the directness of the evidence if the people of interest are older, sicker or have more comorbidity than those in the studies.
Yet, ICD treatment had a significant benefit in patients in NYHA class II but not in those in NYHA class III.
(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Left Ventricular Viability Heart failure is a complex syndrome that impairs the contractile ability of the heart to maintain adequate blood circulation, resulting in poor functional capacity and increased risk of morbidity and mortality.
It is the leading cause of hospitalization in elderly Canadians.
In more than two-thirds of cases, heart failure is secondary to coronary heart disease.
It has been shown that dysfunctional myocardium resulting from coronary heart disease (CAD) may recover contractile function (i.e.
considered viable).
It is believed that repetitive stunning results in hibernating myocardium that will only regain contractile function upon revascularization.
The opportunity for a heart transplant is limited by scarcityof donor hearts.
The assessment of left ventricular (LV) viability is, therefore, critical in deciding whether a patient with coronary artery disease and severe LV dysfunction should undergo revascularization, receive a heart transplant, or remain on medical therapy.
Assessment of Left Ventricular Viability Techniques for assessing myocardial viability depend on the measurement of a specific characteristic of viable myocytes such as cell membrane integrity, preserved metabolism, mitochondria integrity, and preserved contractile reserve.
Newer techniques include SPECT using technetium tracers, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, and PET, the subject of this review.
POSITRON EMISSION TOMOGRAPHY: PET is a nuclear imaging technique based on the metabolism of radioactive analogs of normal substrates such as glucose and water.
The radiopharmaceutical used most frequently in myocardial viability assessment is F18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG), a glucose analog.
The images are reconstructed using computer software and analyzed visually or semi-quantitatively, often in conjunction with perfusion images.
Dysfunctional but stunned myocardium is characterized by normal perfusion and normal FDG uptake; hibernating myocardium exhibits reduced perfusion and normal/enhanced FDG uptake (perfusion/metabolism mismatch), whereas scar tissue is characterized by reduction in both perfusion and FDG uptake (perfusion/metabolism match).
Airborne transmission of infectious diseases depends in part on the concentration of breathable infectious pathogens (germs) in room air.
Engineering methods that are usually carried out by the building's heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system function to prevent the spread of airborne infectious pathogens by diluting (dilution ventilation) and removing (exhaust ventilation) contaminated air from a room, controlling the direction of airflow and the air flow patterns in a building.
However, general wear and tear over time may compromise the HVAC system's effectiveness to maintain adequate indoor air quality.
Likewise, economic issues may curtail the completion of necessary renovations to increase its effectiveness.
Therefore, when exposure to airborne infectious pathogens is a risk, the use of an in-room air cleaner to reduce the concentration of airborne pathogens and prevent the spread of airborne infectious diseases has been proposed as an alternative to renovating a HVAC system.
Airborne transmission is the spread of infectious pathogens over large distances through the air.
Infectious pathogens, which may include fungi, bacteria, and viruses, vary in size and can be dispersed into the air in drops of moisture after coughing or sneezing.
Small drops of moisture carrying infectious pathogens are called droplet nuclei.
Droplet nuclei are about 1 to 5m in diameter.
This small size in part allows them to remain suspended in the air for several hours and be carried by air currents over considerable distances.
Large drops of moisture carrying infectious pathogens are called droplets.
Droplets being larger than droplet nuclei, travel shorter distances (about 1 metre) before rapidly falling out of the air to the ground.
Because droplet nuclei remain airborne for longer periods than do droplets, they are more amenable to engineering infection control methods than are droplets.
Droplet nuclei are responsible for the airborne transmission of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, chicken pox (varicella), measles (rubeola), and dessiminated herpes zoster, whereas close contact is required for the direct transmission of infectious diseases transmitted by droplets, such as influenza (the flu) and SARS.
Aneurysm is the most common condition of the thoracic aorta requiring surgery.
Aortic aneurysm is defined as a localized dilatation of the aorta.
Most aneurysms of the thoracic aorta are asymptomatic and incidentally discovered.
However, TAA tends to enlarge progressively and compress surrounding structures causing symptoms such as chest or back pain, dysphagia (difficulty swallowing), dyspnea (shortness of breath), cough, stridor (a harsh, high-pitched breath sound), and hoarseness.
Significant aortic regurgitation causes symptoms of congestive heart failure.
Embolization of the thrombus to the distal arterial circulation may occur and cause related symptoms.
The aneurysm may eventually rupture and create a life-threatening condition.
The descending aorta is involved in about 30% to 40% of these cases.
The prognosis of large untreated TAAs is poor, with a 3-year survival rate as low as 25%.
Intervention is strongly recommended for any symptomatic TAA or any TAA that exceeds twice the diameter of a normal aorta or is 6 cm or larger.
Open surgical treatment of TAA involves left thoracotomy and aortic graft replacement.
Surgical treatment has been found to improve survival when compared with medical therapy.
However, despite dramatic advances in surgical techniques for performing such complex operations, operative mortality from centres of excellence are between 8% and 20% for elective cases, and up to 50% in patients requiring emergency operations.
In addition, survivors of open surgical repair of TAAs may suffer from severe complications.
Postoperative or postprocedural complications of descending TAA repair include paraplegia, myocardial infarction, stroke, respiratory failure, renal failure, and intestinal ischemia.
Survival in people who have had a cardiac arrest is low, especially in out-of-hospital settings.
With each minute delay in defibrillation from the onset of cardiac arrest, the probability of survival decreases by 10%.
This implies that "first responders" should take up the responsibility of delivering shock.
The first responders in out-of-hospital settings are usually bystanders, firefighters, police, and community volunteers.
In hospital settings, they are usually nurses.
These first responders are not trained in reading electrocardiograms and identifying abnormal heart rhythms restorable by defibrillation.
CONDITION AND TARGET POPULATION Urinary urge incontinence, urgency-frequency, urinary retention, and fecal incontinence are prevalent, yet rarely discussed, conditions.
They are rarely discussed because patients may be uncomfortable disclosing their symptoms to a health professional or may be unaware that there are treatment options for these conditions.
Briefly, urge incontinence is an involuntary loss of urine upon a sudden urge.
Urgency-frequency is an uncontrollable urge to void, which results in frequent, small-volume voids.
Urinary retention refers to the inability to void despite having the urge to void.
It can be caused by a hypocontractile detrusor (weak or no bladder muscle contraction) or obstruction due to urethral overactivity.
Fecal incontinence is a loss of voluntary bowel control.
For those who do not respond to these therapies, the options for treatment are management with diapers or pads, or surgery.
The surgical procedures are generally quite invasive, permanent, and are associated with complications.
Pads and/or diapers are used throughout the course of treatment as different therapies are tried.
Patients who respond successfully to treatment may still require pads or diapers, but to a lesser extent.
One health technology assessment and 1 abstract were found that investigated the costing factors pertinent to SNS.
The authors of this assessment did their own "indicative analysis" and found that SNS was not more cost-effective than using incontinence supplies.
Conversely, the authors of the abstract found that SNS was more cost-effective than incontinence supplies alone; however, they noted that in the first year after SNS, it is much more expensive than only incontinence supplies.
SCS is a reversible pain therapy that uses low-voltage electrical pulses to manage chronic, intractable neuropathic pain of the trunk or limbs.
Neuropathic pain begins or is caused by damage or dysfunction to the nervous system and can be difficult to manage.
These prevalence rates are generalizable to Canada.
Neuropathic pain is extremely difficult to manage.
Chronic pain is an emotional, social, and economic burden for those living with it.
These people are said to have intractable neuropathic pain, and they are the target population for SCS.
The most common indication for SCS in North America is chronic intractable neuropathic pain due to failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS), a term that describes persistent leg or back and leg pain in patients who have had back or spine surgery.
Neuropathic pain due to complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS), which can develop in the distal aspect of a limb a minor injury, is another common indication.
For each condition, SCS is considered as a pain management therapy only after conventional pain therapies, including pharmacological, nonpharmacological, and surgical treatments, if applicable, have been attempted and have failed.
Although most fractures heal within a normal period, about 5% to 10% do not heal and are classified as delayed or nonunion fractures.
Many factors contribute to the pathogenesis of a delayed union or nonunion fractures, including deficiencies of calcium, vitamin D, or vitamin C, and side effects of medications such as anticoagulants, steroids, some anti-inflammatory drugs, and radiation.
It has been shown that smoking interferes with bone repair in several ways.
TREATMENT OF NONUNION CASES: The treatment of nonunion cases is a challenge to orthopedic surgeons.
However, the basic principle behind treatment is to provide both mechanical and biological support to the nonunion site.
Fracture stabilization and immobilization is frequently used with the other treatment modalities that provide biological support to the fractured bone.
Biological support includes materials that could be served as a source of osteogenic cells (osteogenesis), a stimulator of mesenchymal cells (osteoinduction), or a scaffold-like structure (osteoconduction).
The capacity to heal a fracture is a latent potential of the stromal stem cells, which synthesize new bone.
This process has been defined as osteogenesis.
Activation of the stem cells to initiate osteogenic response and to differentiate into bone-forming osteoblasts is called osteoinduction.
Osteoconduction occurs when passive structures facilitate the migration of osteoprogenitor cells, the perivascular tissue, and capillaries into these structures.
BONE GRAFTS AND BONE GRAFT SUBSTITUTES: Bone graft and bone graft substitutes have one or more of the following components: Undifferentiated stem cellsGrowth factorsStructural latticeUndifferentiated stem cells are unspecialized, multipotential cells that can differentiate into a variety of specialized cells.
They can also replicate themselves.
The role of stem cells is to maintain and repair the tissue in which they are residing.
A single stem cell can generate all cell types of that tissue.
Bone marrow is a source of at least 2 kinds of stem cells.
Hematopoietic stem cells that form all types of blood cells, and bone marrow stromal stem cells that have osteogenic properties and can generate bone, cartilage, and fibrous tissue.
Bone marrow has been used to stimulate bone formation in bone defects and cases of nonunion fractures.
Bone marrow can be aspirated from the iliac crest and injected percutaneously with fluoroscopic guidance into the site of the nonunion fracture.
The effectiveness of this technique depends on the number and activity of stem cells in the aspirated bone marrow.
It may be possible to increase the proliferation and speed differentiation of stem cells by exposing them to growth factor or by combining them with collagen.
Of the many bone growth factors studied, bone morphogenetics (BMPs) have generated the greatest attention because of their osteoinductive potential.
The BMPs that have been most widely studied for their ability to induce bone regeneration in humans include BMP-2 and BMP-7 (osteogenic protein).
Human osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1) has been cloned and produced with recombinant technology and is free from the risk of infection or allergic reaction.
Three distinct groups of structural lattice have been identified: collagen, calcium sulphate, and calcium phosphate.
These materials can be used to replace a lost segment of bone.
GRAFTS USED FOR NONUNION: Autologous bone graft is generally considered the gold standard and the best material for grafting because it contains several elements that are critical in promoting bone formation, including osteoprogenitor cells, the matrix, and bone morphogenetic proteins.
The osteoconductive property of cancellous autograft is related to the porosity of bone.
The highly porous, scaffold-like structure of the graft allows host osteoblasts and host osteoprogenitor cells to migrate easily into the area of the defect and to begin regeneration of bone.
Sources of cancellous bone are the iliac crest, the distal femur, the greater trochanter, and the proximal tibia.
However, harvesting the autologous bone graft is associated with postoperative pain at the donor site, potential injury to the surrounding arteries, nerves, and tissues, and the risk of infection.
Allograft is the graft of tissue between individuals who are of the same species but are of a disparate genotype.
Allograft has osteoconductive and limited osteoinductive properties.
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is human cortical and cancellous allograft.
These products are prepared by acid extraction of allograft bone, resulting in the loss of most of the mineralized component while collagen and noncollagenous proteins, including growth factors, are retained.
Figures 1 to 5 demonstrate the osteogenic, osteoinduction, and osteoconduction properties of autologous bone graft, allograft, OP-1, bone graft substitutes, and bone marrow.
Figure 1.Autologous Bone GraftFigure 2.Osteogenic Protein-1Figure 3.Allograft bone and Demineralized Bone MatrixFigure 4.Bone Graft SubstitutesFigure 5.Autologous Bone Marrow Graft NEW TECHNOLOGY BEING REVIEWED: OSTEOGENIC PROTEIN-1 Health Canada issued a Class IV licence for OP-1 in June 2004 (licence number 36320).
The manufacturer of OP-1 is Stryker Biotech (Hapkinton, MA).
Regulatory agencies in Europe, Australia, and New Zealand have permitted the use of this implant in specific cases, such as in tibial nonunions, or in more general cases, such as in long bone nonunions.
According to the manufacturer, OP-1 is indicated for the treatment of long bone nonunions.
It is contraindicated in the patient has a hypersensitivity to the active substance or collagen, and it should not be applied at the site of a resected tumour that is at or near the defect or fracture.
Total hip replacements and total knee replacements are among the most commonly performed surgical procedures in Ontario.
The aim is to maximize a person's functionality and independence and minimize complications such as hip dislocation (for hip replacements), wound infection, deep vein thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism.
THE THERAPY: The physiotherapy rehabilitation routine has 4 components: therapeutic exercise, transfer training, gait training, and instruction in the activities of daily living.
Physiotherapy rehabilitation for people who have had total joint replacement surgery varies in where, how, and when it is delivered.
Inpatient physiotherapy is delivered in a rehabilitation hospital or specialized hospital unit.
Outpatient physiotherapy is done either in an outpatient clinic (clinic-based) or in the person's home (home-based).
Home-based physiotherapy may include practising an exercise program at home with or without supplemental support from a physiotherapist.
Finally, physiotherapy rehabilitation may be administered at several points after surgery, including immediately postoperatively (within the first 5 days) and in the early recovery period (within the first 3 months) after discharge.
There is a growing interest in whether physiotherapy should start before surgery.
A variety of practises exist, and evidence regarding the optimal pre- and post-acute course of rehabilitation to obtain the best outcomes is needed.
Osteoarthritis affects an estimated 10% to 12% of Canadian adults.
The therapeutic goals of osteoarthritis treatment are to improve joint mobility and reduce pain.
Stepwise treatment options include exercise, weight loss, physiotherapy, analgesics, anti-inflammatory drugs, intra-articular steroids and hyaluronic acids, arthroscopic surgery, and, in severe cases, total joint replacement with follow-up rehabilitation.
These treatments are delivered by a range of health care professionals, including physiotherapists, occupational therapists, family physicians, internists, rheumatologists, and orthopedic surgeons.
More women than men undergo knee replacement, and most patients are between 55 and 84 years old.
Graves' disease is about one tenth as common as hypothyroidism and tends to occur more in younger individuals.
Both these disorders share many immunologic features and the disease may progress from one state to other as the autoimmune process changes.
Genetic, environmental and endogenous factors are responsible for initiation of thyroid autoimmunity.
At present the only confirmed genetic factor lies in HLA complex (HLA DR-3) and the T cell regulatory gene (CTLA 4).
The development of antibodies to thyroid peroxidase (TPO) thyroglobulin (TG) and Thyroid stimulating hormone receptor (TSH R) is the main hallmark of AITD.
Circulating T Lymphocytes are increased in AITD and thyroid gland is infiltrated with CD4+ and CD8+ T Cells.
Wide varieties of cytokines are produced by infiltrated immune cells, which mediate cytotoxicity leading to thyroid cell destruction.
Nasal eosinophilia is one of the potential tests for substantiating the diagnosis of allergic rhinitis.
A simple theoretical model of a Darwinian system (a periodic system with a multiplication phase and a selection phase) of entities (initial form of polymer strand, primary mutant and satellite mutants) is given.
The objective of this study was to evaluate retention of ALS knowledge and performance among anaesthesiologists, who, in Italy, respond to in-hospital emergencies as team leaders.
Primary resectability is expected in up to 20% of pancreatic cancer patients.
While most patients relapse with distant metastases, approximately 30% of patients show isolated local recurrence without evidence of distant metastases.
The guideline was prepared under the auspices of the VA/DoD.
No other source of support was identified in the document, or supporting documents.
To minimize this complication, we performed endoscopic resection with hypertonic saline-solution-epinephrine injection plus band ligation and evaluated its safety and effectiveness.
This study was supported by a grant from the French Ministry of Research (Grant 92L0623).
Supported by a grant from Wyeth Nutrition.
Dr Makrides was supported by an RD Wright Fellowship from the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia and Dr Gibson was partially supported by the MS McLeod Research Trust and a Senior Research Fellowship from the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia.
This study was partially supported by a grant to Harvard University by the Samourkas Foundation.
The AVENA-Study was supported by the Spanish Ministry of Health (FIS 00/0015), and grants from Panrico SA, Madaus SA and Procter and Gamble SA.
This study was also supported by Instituto de Salud Carlos III (Spain), RCESP (C03/09) and Spanish Ministry of Education (AP2003-2128).
'Fundacin Sneca' (Murcia, Spain), Project PB/18/FS/02 and Spanish CICYT, Project AGL2003-02195.
Pulmonary nosocomial infection.
Health plans conduct credentialing processes to select and retain qualified physicians who will provide high-quality care to their subscribers.
One of the tools available to health plans to help ensure physician competence is assessment of board certification status.
Although using a helmet is assumed to reduce the risk of head injuries in alpine sports, this effect is questioned.
In contrast to bicycling or inline skating, there is no policy of mandatory helmet use for recreational alpine skiers and snowboarders.
Although most are benign and injury-free, 10% to 25% result in hospital admission and/or fractures.
Interventions have been demonstrated to be successful in reducing falls in community-dwelling elderly patients.
However, less evidence supports the efficacy of fall prevention in nursing home residents.
Unilever Research and Development, Vlaardingen, The Netherlands.
Valio Ltd, R&amp;D, and Fazer Bakeries Ltd.
'Comisin Interministerial de Ciencia y Tecnologa' (CICYT: ALI89-0388) and 'Instituto de Salud Carlos III', RCMN (C03/08), Madrid, Spain'.
Antiphospholipid antibodies are autoantibodies directed against proteins that bind to phospholipid.
Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APS) refers to the association between antiphospholipid antibodies and thrombosis risk or pregnancy morbidity.
The purpose of this study was to investigate in oral breathing children the qualitative and quantitative effects on aerobic and facultatively anaerobic oropharyngeal microflora of respiratory function improved by rapid palatal expansion (RPE).
The Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program is a major vaccine entitlement program with limited long-term evaluation.
Biliary access at ERCP rendezvous is usually achieved by withdrawing a wire passed antegrade via the accessory channel of the duodenoscope, which is then used for over-the-wire cannulation.
The wire is time consuming to maneuver and may be damaged during withdrawal.
Alfried Krupp Foundation, Essen, Germany.
UNICEF New York.
None.
None.
This research was supported (in part) by the Intramural Program of the NIH (National Cancer Institute).
Forbes Medi-Tech Inc., Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
Creatine monohydrate (CrM) use is highly prevalent in team sports (eg, football, lacrosse, ice hockey) and by athletes at the high school, college, professional, and recreational levels.
Concerns have been raised about whether creatine use is associated with increased cramping, muscle injury, heat intolerance, and risk of dehydration.
Theoretically, the risk of compartment syndrome is increased during creatine monohydrate (CrM) supplementation because of intracellular fluid retention in muscle cells and the overall increased size of the muscle tissue.
Whether bioelectrical impedance and skinfold analysis can be used interchangeably to establish minimal wrestling weights (MWWs) is unknown.
Using both methods in a particular program may result in the misclassification of some athletes.
Repetitive overhead throwing has been theorized to result in chronic adaptations to the capsuloligamentous restraints of the glenohumeral joint.
Using constant, variable, and absolute error to measure movement accuracy might provide a more complete description of joint position sense than any of these values alone.
High school female athletes are most likely to sustain a serious knee injury during soccer or basketball, 2 sports that often involve a rapid deceleration before a change of direction or while landing from a jump.
Hip stability and strength are important for proper gait mechanics and foot position during heel strike.
Neither reliability nor validity data exist for the Root method of clinically assessing first ray position or mobility by experienced and inexperienced examiners.
Athletic training educators often anecdotally suggest that athletic training students enhance their learning by teaching their peers.
However, peer-assisted learning (PAL) has not been examined within athletic training education in order to provide evidence for its current use or as a pedagogic tool.
Learning theory and pedagogic research are unfamiliar to many educators trained in the sciences.
Both short and long interpregnancy intervals have been associated with an increased risk of adverse perinatal outcomes.
However, whether this possible association is confounded by maternal characteristics or socioeconomic status is uncertain.
Despite there being millions of pacemaker and implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) generator implants worldwide, little is known about device reliability.
Electrostatic attraction of aerosolized particles to the inner walls of an aerosol holding chamber (HC) made from a nonconducting material can reduce medication delivery, particularly if there is a delay between actuation and inhalation.
Subnormal head circumference (HC) has been associated with poor neurologic and developmental outcomes.
Successful cross-national research requires methods that are both standardized across sites and adaptable to local conditions.
Evaluating the impact of recommendations based upon health technology assessment (HTA) represents a challenge for both HTA agencies and healthcare policy-makers.
Using a psychosocial theoretical framework, this study aimed at exploring the factors affecting physician intention to adopt HTA recommendations.
The selected recommendations were prioritisation systems for patients on waiting lists for two surgical procedures: hip and knee replacement and cataract surgery.
Use of skilled antenatal and delivery care improves maternal outcomes through the prevention, management and treatment of obstetric complications, and infant immunizations prevent many childhood diseases.
Surgical resection is currently considered to be the criterion standard for treatment of insulinomas.
Alternative treatments, despite medication with diazoxide, are lacking.
EUS-guided ethanol ablation of endocrine tumors has not been reported before.
This study is based on data of the HALE project and supported by a grant from the European Union (QLK6-CT-2000-00211) to D Kromhout.
Gardner's syndrome can occasionally be complicated with intra-abdominal desmoid tumor.
These tumors usually remain asymptomatic but can exhibit symptoms due to intestinal, vascular and ureteral compression and obstruction.
Baseball players rely on the sensorimotor system to uphold the balance between upper extremity stability and mobility while maintaining athletic performance.
Functional ankle instability has been defined in a variety of ways.
With all the variations in defining functional ankle instability, it becomes increasingly important to develop a more consistent framework for assessing this instability.
However, little is known about how joint kinematics and temporal variables are affected by heel lifts.
Valgus knee alignment places greater strain on the anterior cruciate ligament than a more neutral alignment.
Gluteus medius (GM) activation may stabilize the leg and pelvis during landing, limiting valgus knee motion and potentially preventing anterior cruciate ligament injury.
Sport training enhances the ability to use somatosensory and otolithic information, which improves postural capabilities.
Postural changes are different according to the sport practiced, but few authors have analyzed subjects' postural performances to discriminate the expertise level among highly skilled athletes within a specific discipline.
Cryotherapy has been shown to disinhibit the quadriceps muscle after joint effusion by a resting measure (Hoffmann reflex) of motor recruitment.
Exposure of the human body to cold is perceived as a stressor and results in a sympathetic response geared at maintaining core temperature.
Little is known about the organizational socialization of certified athletic trainers (ATs) in the collegiate context.
Upper extremity deep venous thrombosis is an uncommon vascular problem, occurring primarily in young, healthy, active people.
Although the history and symptoms are often unremarkable, the condition can lead to complications if not correctly recognized and appropriately treated.
In this case, the athlete reported tightness in his right biceps muscle and upper back after sleeping on his shoulder.
The patient denied substance abuse or illegal anabolic steroid use, and these possibilities were ruled out as factors in the diagnosis and treatment.
To promote safety in sports, athletic trainers must be able to accurately interpret and apply injury data and statistics.
Doing so allows them to more efficiently articulate this information to school administrators in recommending increases in medical resources, such as more personnel, better services, and safer facilities and equipment.
Journal writing can facilitate reflection and allow students to express feelings regarding their educational experiences.
The format of this writing can vary depending on the students' needs and the instructor's goals.
Recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2 (rh-BMP2) has become popular for augmenting spine fusion in the lumbar and cervical spine.
Concerns exist, however, over bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-stimulated soft-tissue swelling and bone growth stimulation in areas where bone is not desired, especially as the material "leaks" into such spaces.
The most detrimental effects of such leakage might be airway compromise, while heterotopic bone formation into the spinal canal has been reported in animal and human studies.
Fibrin glue has been used as a carrier of many osteoinductive materials; however, its efficacy at modulating the clinical effects of BMP are not known.
The amorphous nature of fibrin glue makes it a candidate to control diffusion of BMP and possibly limit bone formation by limiting BMP diffusion to areas where such bone is not desired.
Classifications of chronic pancreatitis based on either histologic (Marseilles) or endoscopic (Cambridge) criteria are not widely used.
Pancreatic pseudocysts located in the mediastinum are rare.
Symptomatic mediastinal pseudocysts can present with dysphagia, dyspnea, airway obstruction and/or cardiac tamponade.
Generally, the standard approaches are surgery and external drainage.
Recently, there have been many reports of successful endoscopic drainage mainly using a transpapillary technique.
Whether upregulation of heme oxygenase (HO) expression could improve penile erection has been unknown.
Melanocortins affect multiple physiological responses, including sexual behaviors.
The European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) is coordinated by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (World Health Organization) and supported by the Europe Against Cancer Program of the European Commission.
The Greek segment of the EPIC study is also supported by the Greek Ministry of Health and the Greek Ministry of Education.
This study was additionally supported by the fellowship 'Vassilios and Nafsika Tricha'.
All surveys were funded by the National Public Health Institute in Finland.
The trial will also be carried out in keeping with local and regulatory requirements.
Documentation of patient's data will be accomplished via electronical Case Report Files (eCRF) with MACRO-Software by the KSC.
Surgical and radiation therapies of bladder and prostate cancers may damage cavernous nerves and cause erectile dysfunction (ED).
We previously showed that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) could restore erectile function in a neurogenic ED rat model.
We now investigated the signaling mechanism of BDNF in major pelvic ganglia (MPG) explants.
However, several recent studies have reported evidence of hormonal abnormalities in 25-35% of impotent men.
Hypothyroidism has been reported to occur in 6% of impotent men.
There is some evidence suggesting that hypothyroidism may be a cause of impotence.
Regression calibration as a method for handling measurement error is becoming increasingly well-known and used in epidemiologic research.
However, the standard version of the method is not appropriate for exposure analyzed on a categorical (e.g.
quintile) scale, an approach commonly used in epidemiologic studies.
A tempting solution could then be to use the predicted continuous exposure obtained through the regression calibration method and treat it as an approximation to the true exposure, that is, include the categorized calibrated exposure in the main regression analysis.
In assessing the patient with headache, clinicians are often faced with 2 important questions: Is this headache a migraine?
Does this patient require neuroimaging?
The diagnosis of migraine can direct therapy, and information obtained from the history and physical examination is used by physicians to determine which patients require neuroimaging.
A common polymorphism exists in the promoter region of the aldosterone synthase gene (CYP11B2) at position -344 (T/C).
The -344C allele, associated with higher aldosterone synthase activity, has been linked to hypertension; however, its impact on outcomes in HF is unknown.
The multibite biopsy forceps is intended for consecutive acquisition of numerous tissue specimens with a single pass.
The Pelican multibite forceps is equipped with a sleeve for tissue retention that allows up to 6 specimens to be obtained with each pass of the device through the accessory channel.
Endoluminal clip closure of small perforations of the colon is possible.
It is unclear whether large perforations of the colon can be closed with clips deployed through a colonoscope.
All surveys were funded by the National Public Health Institute in Finland and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
This study was supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, Republic of China (NSC-92-2320-B-040-026).
Sciatica without evidence of lumbosacral root compression is often attributed to piriformis syndrome.
However, specific diagnostic tools have not been available to demonstrate sciatic nerve entrapment by the piriformis muscle.
The optimal treatment for hepatic metastases from neuroendocrine tumors remains controversial because of the often indolent nature of these tumors.
Research concerning prophylactic ankle stabilizers (PASs) has focused on healthy subjects, and the results cannot be generalized to the functional ankle instability (FAI) population, a population that has an increased risk of reinjury and is likely to wear PASs.
Little is known about the effects of static alignment on neuromuscular control of the knee during dynamic motion.
A neuromuscular relationship exists between the lumbar extensor and quadriceps muscles during fatiguing exercise.
Stretching is common among athletes as a potential method for injury prevention.
Muscular fatigue impedes sensorimotor function and may increase the risk of shoulder injury during activity.
The effects of fatigue on the sensorimotor system of the shoulder have been studied with various results.
Deceleration times have been used to study neuromuscular control of the shoulder; however, no studies involving the effects of fatigue on deceleration times have been reported.
The efficacy of exercise using a flexible foil to increase strength in the shoulder rotator muscles is unknown.
Several groups have undertaken studies to evaluate the physiologic effects of whole-body vibration (WBV).
Fatigue appears to influence musculoskeletal injury rates during athletic activities, but whether males and females respond differently to fatigue is unknown.
The return-to-play decision after sport-related cerebral concussion depends in part on knowing when an athlete has fully recovered postural control after injury.
Isokinetic and isotonic resistance training exercises are commonly used to increase strength during musculoskeletal rehabilitation programs.
Our study was designed to examine the efficacy of isokinetic and isotonic muscle actions using surface electromyographic (EMG) amplitude-to-work ratios (EMG/WK) and to extend previous findings to include a range of isokinetic velocities and isotonic loads.
The delivery of hydrocortisone through phonophoresis is a widely prescribed technique for the treatment of various musculoskeletal inflammatory conditions.
However, limited scientific evidence exists to support the efficacy of phonophoresis in delivering hydrocortisone to skeletal muscle tissue in humans.
Although the United States has nearly 60 000 rugby players, to date no nationally representative rugby injury studies have been conducted.
Recommendations for heat illness prevention provided by sports medicine associations do not always account for sex differences, specific age populations, regional environmental conditions, equipment worn during activity, or the athlete's size or preexisting level of fitness.
Touching the extremities elicited an extreme burning sensation.
After in-line stabilization of the cervical spine was performed, palpation of the spinous processes elicited tenderness and an increase in pain.
Six weeks before the injury, the athlete had experienced forced lateral flexion of the cervical spine during a match, resulting in an episode of bilateral numbness and burning in his arms.
On evaluation by the athletic trainer, symptoms were limited to the right hand, and brachial plexus neurapraxia was diagnosed.
Socioeconomic position across adulthood was measured in three ways.
Data on possession of several indicators of material wealth (eg, ownership of television and washing machine; material conditions) during the same periods were also ascertained.
Standard occupational classification was also recorded, based on longest held occupation.
The risk of infection and potential microbial transmission with EUS-guided FNA (EUS-FNA) of cystic lesions remains unknown.
Reversal of degenerative disc dehydration is an attractive goal.
Costal cartilage is plentiful, hydrophilic, and avascular, leading us to speculate that it would survive transplantation into the degenerated disc, increase proteoglycan content, and restore disc height.
Most bone screws originally developed were intended to be installed in a pretapped pilot hole.
This same technology has been carried over to the development of more modern bone screws for use in spinal fixation applications.
Many pedicle screws in use today are still intended to be installed in a tapped hole.
Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is frequently used to evaluate first-time episodes of serious low back pain (LBP).
Common degenerative findings are often interpreted as recent developments and the probable anatomic cause of the new symptoms.
This method can identify new versus old MR findings possibly associated with the acute symptomatic episode.
Biomechanical studies of artificial discs that quantify parameters such as load sharing and stresses have been reported in literature for single-level disc placements.
However, literature on the effects of using the Charit artificial disc (ChD) at two levels (2LChD) as compared with one-level fusion (using a cage [CG] and a pedicle screw system) plus one-level artificial disc combination (CGChD) is sparse.
Promotion of institutional deliveries and imparting health education to mothers for protecting and promoting optimal breast-feeding practices are suggested.
Guidewires and catheters exert less force on the gut wall than an endoscope.
The Unidade de Nutrio e Metabolismo of the Instituto de Medicina Molecular is partially funded by a grant from the FCT (Fundao para a Cincia e a Tecnologia) ref.
RUN 437.
International Olympic Committee and the Direction Rgionale de la Jeunesse et des Sports de la Rgion Auvergne.
N/A.
Research into the effects of ice on neuromuscular performance is limited, and the results sometimes conflict.
Athletes running in a hot, humid environment may have an increased risk of heat illness.
In the 2004 Olympic Games, American and Australian athletes were provided with ice vests designed to cool their bodies before performance.
The vest appeared to be effective in keeping body temperatures down and improving the performance of the marathoners.
However, body temperatures have not been reported when the vest was used before an actual competition.
Increased contracture of the dominant posterior shoulder in throwing athletes has been associated with the development of altered shoulder rotational motion as well as several shoulder conditions.
Clinicians must be able to accurately and reliably measure posterior shoulder contractures during the evaluation of such athletes in order to provide appropriate treatment.
Investigating the sex-specific abdominal activation strategies during landing lends insight into mechanisms contributing to control of the trunk segment.
The leg acts as a linear spring during running and hopping and adapts to the stiffness of the surface, maintaining constant total stiffness of the leg-surface system.
Improving postural stability through balance training may prevent ankle sprains.
Establishing psychometric and measurement properties of concussion assessments is important before these assessments are used by clinicians.
To date, data have been limited regarding these issues with respect to neurocognitive and postural stability testing, especially in a younger athletic population.
For accreditation to have value, it must be a meaningful indicator of quality and be viewed as such.
Athletic training education programs must provide the proper type and amount of clinical supervision in order for athletic training students to obtain appropriate clinical education and to meet Board of Certification examination requirements.
Injuries involving the lumbar spine and lower extremities in athletes are among the most disabling.
Lack of trunk and hip strength may predispose athletes to such injuries.
Alcohol consumption among college students has been evaluated at many levels, but assessment of alcohol consumption among collegiate athletic training students has not been substantially reviewed.
Understanding the alcohol use of this college-age group adds to the overall literature on alcohol consumption of the college student population.
Ice hockey, lacrosse, and field hockey are increasingly popular sports among US youth athletes, but no authors to date have compared injuries in male and female pediatric (ages 2 through 18 years) participants.
Palliative care has emerged as a specialist discipline in the past 25 years.
Summary
The effectiveness of trabeculectomy in the management of glaucoma is well known.
Universal Basic Precautions (UBP) are not well understood nor implemented by health professionals, though crucial in HIV/AIDS prevention.
As defined by Garner, UBP refers to "the prevention of transmission of blood borne pathogens like HIV through strict respect by health workers of rules concerning care and nursing"
Summary
Female genital mutilation (FGM) is prevalent in northern Ghana, as the practice is seen as a passage rite to women adulthood and thus undertaken just before marriage.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is one of the most significant pathogens infecting immunosuppressed individuals.
CMV is transmissible through transfusion of blood components.
An exponential decrease in tree mortality probability with an increase of tree size is characteristic for trees suffering different competition intensity, however, this decrease becomes much more pronounced as the competition pressure increases.
The relations of different tree and stand variables with tree mortality probability have been found to become much weaker in the polluted environment.
At the same defoliation level, individual tree mortality probability was much higher for smaller suppressed trees, however, a relative increase in tree mortality probability along with an increase of crown defoliation was more pronounced for dominant trees.
Preoperative autologous blood donation (PABD) is utilized to circumvent the use of allogenic blood for various reasons.
Returning an athlete to play following a spinal or concussive injury remains a challenge for the health practitioner making the decision.
Among the possible mechanisms responsible for such injuries in amateur football, the concept of "spearing" has attracted a great deal of attention in sport medicine.
RP may lead to digital or limb loss.
ACL are associated to thrombotic episodes.
Early supported discharge (ESD) with continued rehabilitation at home has shown a beneficial effect on extended activities of daily living 5 years after stroke.
The long-term effect of ESD on resource use has not been explored.
Dysphagia and poor nutritional status occur frequently after stroke; however, potential associations between them are unknown.
Potential associations between these outcomes and more global stroke severity measures were also assessed.
Low-serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels are associated with increased risk of stroke in various populations, including young patients.
This study was designed to develop a simple, reversible primate middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion (MCAO) model.
Similarly, the reliability of using clinical medical records to classify ischemic stroke has not been assessed.
The purpose of this study was to establish the interrater reliability of sibling stroke subtyping by applying the TOAST criteria to retrospectively obtained medical records.
Cilostazol is a potent selective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase-3 of proven efficacy in intermittent claudication.
It has antiplatelet effect and produces vasodilatation in several vascular territories.
One of its effects is thought to be antiplatelet action, but the mechanisms involved are unclear.
Therefore, we investigated the effects of Orengedokuto on platelet aggregation and activation.
Women seem to be more vulnerable to dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD), than men.
There is controversy among studies correlating estrogen deficit to cognitive impairment.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), accelerated neurofibrillary tangle formation occurs which is associated with increased tau protein release into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
Recent studies found significantly increased CSF tau already in patients at risk of developing AD, indicating its potential as a biochemical marker of AD.
A variety of factors contribute to the development of cognitive impairment in elderly people.
The purpose of the present study was to document the pathological and epidemiological data on MM cases found in NS.
Closed injury to the finger flexor pulley system is found frequently in rock climbers.
There are no evidence-based published guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of these injuries.
Studies of dementia in populations avoid many of the selection biases in clinical samples but require special evaluation and diagnostic methods to obtain high participation rates.
To address this issue, we developed a unique in-home dementia assessment.
We assessed validity of these assessments using neuropathologic confirmation of the clinical diagnosis in 3 epidemiologic samples.
The Cognitive and Emotional Health Project (CEHP) seeks to identify the demographic, social, and biological determinants of cognitive and emotional health in the older adult.
As part of the CEHP, a critical evaluation study committee was formed to assess the state of epidemiological research on demographic, social, and biological determinants of cognitive and emotional health.
The diagnosis of dementia, along with the prediction of who will develop dementia, has been assisted by the development of the brain imaging techniques of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET).
The aim of this study was to examine the association between statin use before the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) symptoms and risk of having AD, and to explore the potential impact of APOE genotype and race on this association.
The modified Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status (TICS-m) assesses cognitive status via the telephone and has been used to recruit for clinical trials by screening for amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI).
The utility of screening for aMCI has not been validated, and it is unknown which questions best predict aMCI.
The purpose of this study was to test nongenetic factors that might explain discordance for dementia in monozygotic twin pairs.
Stroke, dementia, and cognitive impairment no dementia (CIND) pose major threats to the elderly but have rarely been studied together in the same population.
Telemedicine (TM) is a modality for providing medical care at remote locations but is underutilized for populations with Alzheimer disease (AD).
Several previous studies have reported that amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), a significant risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), is associated with greater atrophy in the medial temporal lobe (MTL) and posterior cingulate gyrus (PCG).
Health Promotion may involve assessing the community and assisting in the formation of coalitions that empower a community to reduce health risks.
These changes necessitate authors of review articles to be familiar with current standards in the publication process.
Some practitioners believe mechanical low back pain may be caused or aggravated by a stiff ankle, stiff great toe or flat feet.
Background.
Responsibility for medication can be an integral part of the informal caring role.
Aims and objectives.
To explore partnerships between older people and their carers in the management of medication and consider the implications for health professionals.
Methods.
Older people and their carers were identified through community pharmacies in four randomly selected areas of England.
Ninety-four transcripts relating to 47 older people and their associated carers were analysed using a qualitative approach.
Results.
Underlying these perspectives were issues concerning the sharing/concealment of information, autonomy and control.
Caring was also described as a dynamic process.
Older people and carers commented on how sharing responsibilities for medication varied on a day-to-day basis, as well as expressing concern regarding the changing needs of the older person and the carer's capacity to cope.
Specifically the existing literature lacks in-depth knowledge on nurses' experiences.
The authors reviewed the topic of reliability of psychiatric diagnosis from the turn of the 20th century to present.
The objectives of this paper are to explore the reasons of unreliability of psychiatric diagnosis and propose ways to improve the reliability of psychiatric diagnosis.
This paper is a review article that collects and synthesizes up-to-date information about the complex etiological theories and treatment regimens associated with Fibromyalgia.
The authors have written the paper in an evidence-based model in order to show the reader where adequate data exist in regards to these pharmacological, psychological, and physical strategies.
A thorough MEDLINE search was utilized to collect many papers dedicated to this topic spanning 1970-2005.
Plastibell circumcision complications can be life-threatening.
Hemoptysis is one of the mustard exposed patients' symptoms.
Myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) may have an intrinsic muscle spasm component.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an important cause of disability, affects 1% of the population.
Early diagnosis and referral to a rheumatologist are positive prognostic factor but diagnosis in many cases is in the hands of primary care physicians (PCP).
We demonstrated, in a recently published study, far more PPD negative reactivity among patients who had RA (70%) than among controls (30%).
We also evaluated any correlations between serum cytokines and RA activity.
Meningoencephalic herniation into the middle ear is a rare condition that can be life threatening for the patient due to eventual infective intracrunial complications.
It is characterized by a bony and dural defect localized in the tegmen through which meninges and encephalic tissue can herniate.
Meningoencephalic hernia of the middle ear can appear as an insidious complication of Chronic mastoiditis (infective) and its surgery, trauma or spontaneous.
High resolution computed tomography (CT scan) and Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) must be done to evaluate the extent and the contents of the disease.
Early and effective surgical repair, the only appropriate treatment, is necessary to avoid complication and recurrence.
Middle cranial fossa, mastoid, combined approaches and obliteration of mastoid; external auditory canal and middle ear are the surgical procedures for the repair of hernias.
Various materials viz.
fascia/ muscle/fat / cartilage/ bones/ synthetic materials are used.
To overcome the problem of recurrence and have a foolproof method, a three tier management is described and suggested.
Meningoencephalocele, brain hemiation.
Despite the acknowledged importance of fatigue on performance in sport, ecologically sound studies investigating fatigue and its effects on sport-specific skills are surprisingly rare.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of moderate and high intensity total body fatigue on passing accuracy in expert and novice basketball players.
ANOVA with repeated measures revealed a significant (F 2,36 = 5.252, p = 0.01) level of fatigue by level of skill interaction.
On examination of the mean scores it is clear that following high intensity total body fatigue there is a significant detriment in the passing performance of both novice and expert basketball players when compared to their resting scores.
Fundamentally however, the detrimental impact of fatigue on passing performance is not as steep in the expert players compared to the novice players.
The results suggest that expert or skilled players are better able to cope with both moderate and high intensity fatigue conditions and maintain a higher level of performance when compared to novice players.
This specific training may enable players at all levels of the game to better cope with the demands of the game on court and maintain a higher standard of play.
Key Points
Each subject completed 3 maximal reciprocal concentric/concentric repetitions of dominant knee extension/flexion on a Biodex System 2 isokinetic dynamometer at 60, 120, 180, 240 and 360 degsec(-1) in the supine or prone and seated positions.
Repeated measures ANOVA revealed that only seated flexion at 360 degsec(-1) (57.6  1.7 degrees) elicited significantly (p &lt; 0.05) greater LR than prone (49.2  2.8 degrees).
LR is the only phase of an isokinetic repetition where quantifiable resistance is maintained and this data appears to support that it may not be position-dependent but position may alter traditional performance variables.
Key PointsLoad range is the constant velocity phase where torque is collected.Load range has an inverse relationship with velocity.Load range may not be position dependent for the knee extensors or flexors.
This investigation evaluates the effects of mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA), calcium hydroxide (CH) and calcium enriched mixture (CEM) as pulp capping materials on dental pulp tissues.
The aim of this study was to compare a clearing technique with conventional radiography in studying certain features of the root canal system in single root premolars.
A secondary aim was to assess inter examiner agreement for these features using radiographs.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of two irrigants on decreasing the pain and swelling at different times after treatment of necrotic pulp.
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of different luting agents on fracture resistance of endodontically treated teeth restored with casting post.
Candida Albicans (CA) is by far the most common yeast of oral infections, including endodontic infections.
The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the antifungal effect of white-colored mineral trioxide aggregate (WMTA) and Portland Cement (PC) using a tube-dilution test.
Apexogenesis is a way to save vitality of open apex damaged teeth with mild or moderate pulp involvement.
Such teeth are not repaired through normal and usual treatments.
This treatment provides usual and physiological conditions for root to develop in normal length.
Therefore, this study was carried out to evaluate low power laser effects on incisional wound healing.
This study was carried out to compare the effect of different suture removal time on surgical wound healing.
Mineral trioxide aggregate is being widely used for root end filling, pulp capping, perforation repair, and other endodontic procedures.
Recently, a material similar to ProRoot mineral trioxide aggregate (PMTA) was developed in Iran named Root mineral trioxide aggregate (RMTA) with the claim of having the exact result of original MTA.
The purpose of this study was to compare the amount of cell cytotoxicity of RMTA with PMTA at three different time periods using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) as well as the amount of cell viability at the above mentioned period.
The purpose of this study was to compare the ability of ProRoot mineral trioxide aggregate (PMTA) and Root mineral trioxide aggregate (RMTA) as root-end filling materials, and Portland cement (PC) to prevent bacterial leakage through filled root end cavities.
Root canal therapy (RCT)_like other dental practices_ can be accompanied with some accidents or unpredictable conditions that are called "procedural accidents".
Having the knowledge about these accidents and their etiology is essential to have RCT completion and to prevent the repeat of these accidents.
The purpose of this study was to compare the sealability of three different commercial types of mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) and calcium enrichment mixture (CEM) cement as an experimental root-end filling material.
Coronal leakage seems to play an important role in the failure of endodontic treatment.
A double seal over root canal filling has been suggested as a means of improving the coronal seal.
Several restorative materials have been used in an attempt to produce a coronal barrier.
The purpose of this study was to assess gray-coloured mineral trioxide aggregate (GMTA), white-coloured mineral trioxide aggregate MTA (WMTA), and Principle (a resin-modified glass ionomer) as coronal barriers to bacterial leakage.
Along with introduction of dentin bonding agents (DBA), their clinical use as lining materials is increasing rapidly.
Since remaining dentinal thickness (RDT) has always been a concern for cytopathic effect of restorative materials, its effect on reduction of cytotoxicity of these materials especially DBAs is critical.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the cytotoxicity of three dentin bonding systems, belonged to the 4(th), 5(th) and 6(th) generation of DBAs on L929 cell line.
Therefore, this study was carried out to evaluate low power laser effects on incisional wound healing.
Gutta-Percha, the concrete milky juice of the Sapotaceae family tree, is the most commonly used material for obturation of prepared canal space.
Natural 1-4 trans stereochemical structure of Gutta-Percha is taken to a heating- inclusion process of various organic and inorganic elements by manufacturers.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the morphologic surface of gutta-percha cones after cutting with different methods.
Perforations of the pulpal floor create problems during endodontic treatment and often results in secondary periodontal involvement with eventual loss of teeth.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA), Amalgam, zinc oxide and eugenol (ZOE) and Portland cement to seal furcal perforations in extracted human molars using dye penetration.
Prefabricated metal and ceramic posts can be used with different kinds of core materials as an alternative to the conventional casting post and cores.
It is unclear how these post and core systems can withstand different kind of forces in the mouth.
The purpose of the present study was to quantify and compare the amount of extruded debris from apical foramen after instrumentation of the root canal system with hand and rotary instruments.
This article describes the diagnosis and treatment of two symmetrical maxillary first molars with two canals in their distobuccal roots.
A 32-year-old female had an emergency treatment because of the pain in tooth #16.
On the second visit after accessing the pulp chamber and detecting three major canals (MB, DB, and P) and exploring the 4th canal (MB2), we noted that there was a 5(th) canal in the distobuccal root.
Also, necrosis was found in the same patient after examining the tooth #26 which was severely decayed.
Then after preparing the access cavity, the same order of orifices was found in tooth #16.
An electronic apex locator was utilized to ensure that a perforation of the pulpal floor had not occurred.
Working films confirmed the presence of an additional canal in distobuccal root.
Complicated crown- root fractures, extended caries and iatrogenic destruction often result in insufficient sound tooth structures and compromise the biologic width.
Two common options for re-establishing flap with osseous surgery.
The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate clinically as well as radiographically the effect of surgical extrusion upon the surrounding root structures.
The ideal endodontic treatment for the teeth with in complete root-ends and necrotic pulps may involve the use of material which forms an immediate apical barrier instead of long term calcium hydroxide therapy.
Such procedure may lead us to a single appointment endodontic treatment.
Failure to achieve adequate and profound anesthesia in teeth with acute pulp inflammation is a common condition during emergency visits in root canal therapy.
Many different anesthetic solutions such as morphine and capsaicin have accordingly been examined.
Mannitol- an alcoholic sugar with high osmotic pressure level- is applicated for reducing intracranial and post retinal pressure in medicine.
It has also been used for its diuretic effect.
This study was carried out to investigate calcific tissue formation against mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) after pulp capping.
Traumatic injuries to the teeth are among the most serious dental accidents, with the anterior teeth being mostly affected.
Some consequences of dental trauma include misshaping, speech defects, psychological and social effects.
The knowledge of the field can reduce the suffering, cost, and the time for patients, parents, and health care providers.
PAHO establishes guidelines that must be met by drug information centers (DIC) and the drug information services (DIS).
Intensive Care Medicine supplies subsidies that improve the morbidity and mortality, but that also the significant risks of adverse events and serious errors associate.
The Iatrogenic can be minimized with the adequate monitorization or can be friction as waited aggravation, idiopathic and if to perpetuate in the anonymity.
Although low extraction and adequate renal reserve of oxygen, the kidney is extremely sensible to hypoperfusion being renal acute insufficiency a frequent complication of hemodynamic instability.
Factors associated with renal lesion are observed in all fases of perioperative period: fasting, contrast use, hypovolemia, hypotension, catecholamine and cytokine release, extracorporeal circulation, trauma, rabdomiolisys and aortic clamp.
This article reviews the concepts, diagnostic topics, clinical presentation and the principle of basic treatment in Intensive Care Unit for SJS and TEN.
In order to compare methods in NA in critical patient, search was performed in scientific papers aboutthis area.
The keywords usedwere nutritional assessment, critical patient, critical care, hospital undernourishment and anthropometry.
It has been suggested that the polyneuropathy is related with cytokines and other mediators which would increase the permeability of the vases, resulting in endoneural edema and causing the axonal injury.
It is difficult to do the initial diagnostic, which, in general, are only possibly recognized when the sepsis complications or the multiple organs failure have been satisfactorily controlled.
The diagnosis is made through the eletroneuromiography exam, and although there is still no effective drug treatment other than the control of the basic illness, it is consensus among multidisciplinary team that the development of the CIP does not have to be understood as a way to reduce the intensity of treatment.
This article revises conceptually the gas embolism, dividing it in arterial and venous.
In addition, it's also approach the paradoxical embolism, event that occurs by conversion of a venous embolism to an arterial embolism.
Despite these considerations, the prevention of VTE may not be as high a priority in ICU patients as it is in other high-risk patient groups.
Metabolic acidosis is a common issue in critically ill patients, an important cause of myocardial contractility depression and sensible marker of impaired tissue oxygenation.
In these individuals, the presence of unmeasured anions in the plasma is an important mechanism of metabolic acidosis and its early detection fundamental to avoid deleterious effect on the organism.
Severe neurologic disability is the most feared complication after a cardiac arrest.
Many studies are trying to find prognostic markers that can be associated with outcomes in patients surviving a cardiac arrest.
Biochemical markers of neuronal injury seem to be promising in this scenario.
Therefore, NSE levels have been studied in patients after a cardiac arrest and high enzyme levels suggest more extensive brain damage and are associated with unfavorable clinical outcomes.
A review of literature and selection of the most important publications on inhaled nitric oxide, using the MedLine and Cochrane Systematic Review Databases.
This review was organized as follows: introduction; metabolism and biological effects; clinical applications; dosage, gas administration and weaning process; warnings and side-effects.
Inhaled nitric oxide use was described in acute respiratory distress syndrome.
Deficient oral hygiene is common in patients under intensive care, which provides the colonization of oral biofilm for pathogenic microorganisms, especially for respiratory pathogens.
The studies clearly show that the amount of oral biofilm in patients under intensive care increases according to period hospitalization meanwhile there also is an increase in respiratory pathogens.
That colonizes the oral biofilm.
This biofilm is an important resource of pathogens in patients under intensive care.
There are several new recommendations on cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), the major are intended to provide good circulation during cardiac arrest.
The most important change is the emphasis on high-quality chest compressions with minimal interruptions.
Only one shock is delivered when indicated, followed immediately by CPR.
This shock should be of 120-200J on a biphasic wave or 360J on a monophasic wave.
After this period, if an organized rhythm is present, the healthcare provider should check for a pulse.
There are several little changes about the drugs administrated during CPR according to the rhythm.
Given the lack of documented effect of drug therapy in improving long-term outcome from cardiac arrest, the sequence for CPR deemphasizes drug administration and reemphasizes basic life support.
Remifentanil is a short acting opioid agonist little used in intensive care medicine.
Several studies have been published, showing that remifentanil is a safe drug to be used for the sedation and analgesia for intensive care patients, still needing more information regardless to septic shock patients.
The analysis included hemodynamic therapies with defined specific goals and new recommendations for fluid resuscitation, vasopressor therapy, and inotropic therapy of septic in adult and pediatric patients.
Colonoscopy is the "gold standard" for colorectal polyp and cancer detection, but important lesions may be missed on the proximal aspect of haustral folds, rectal valves, or flexures.
Discography has been successfully used to distinguish painful from asymptomatic intervertebral discs.
Chronic medical conditions are frequently associated with sexual difficulties and problems, which are often underreported and underdiagnosed.
Patients may feel that sexual problems in the context of disease are not important enough to be mentioned to their physicians, and physicians may feel uncomfortable and sometimes incompetent.
Furthermore, the diagnostic criteria of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV and International Classification of Diseases-10 are focused on the phenomenology of the sexual response without any specificity regarding diseases.
Acute renal failure is a common complication in critically ill patients and carries an increased morbidity and mortality.
N-acetylcysteine is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory agent that may counteract some of the pathophysiologic derangements in shock states.
Dutch Diabetes Research Foundation, and the Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (NWO).
Italian Association for Research on Cancer, Milan, Italy, and Italian League against Tumours, Milan, Italy.
Grants from the NIH, Nestle Waters.
Although the roles of clotting proteins and enzymes that activate or inhibit fibrin production and lysis are well characterized, the underlying contribution of genetic variation in these constituents to risk of venous thrombosis (VT) has not been fully investigated.
(2) Multidisciplinary teams provide a vital safety net for their patients and colleagues.
Gastric restrictive procedures are widely used for the surgical treatment of morbid obesity.
The use of natural remedies for the treatment of sexual disorders is under current investigation.
For generations people of the rural community in Peru have used Lepidium meyenii Walpers (Maca), because of their belief that it improves fertility and sexual desire.
Advances in neurobiology have led to a surge of clinical interest in the development of protective and regenerative neuromodulatory strategies, as surgical therapies for prostate cancer often result in neuronal damage and debilitating loss of sexual function.
Recently, McCall and Meston presented an assessment tool for empirically categorizing stimuli associated with sexual desire in women.
Dermoscopic classification of acquired melanocytic nevi (AMN) is based on the evaluation of 3 main criteria-global pattern, pigment distribution, and color.
However, the exclusion of certain patient populations may lead to impaired generalizability of results.
With few exceptions, the umbilical cord of every newborn is clamped and cut at birth, yet the optimal timing for this intervention remains controversial.
Endoscopic transmural drainage is obtained by creating a communication between the intestinal tract and the pancreatic-fluid collection, and then inserting 1 or more stents.
Collection recurrence after therapy is noted in 10% to 30% of cases.
It is not known whether leaving the stents in position reduces recurrence rates.
Intralumenal full-thickness gastric resection (FTGR) could be useful as a biopsy technique or in the management of gastric neoplasms.
SurgASSIST is a cutting and stapling device delivered on a steerable shaft to which interchangeable stapling units are affixed.
The Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University supplied the necessary equipment and conference rooms.
This study was partially supported by the INGREDIA of France and Neurobiology Research Program from the Korea Ministry of Science and Technology (2004-01757) of Korea.
Percutaneous tracheostomy is an alternative to conventional surgical tracheostomy.
Herein, we review our experience since the implementation of this technique in our Department.
Alterations in DNA methylation in cancer include global hypomethylation and gene-specific hypermethylation.
It is not clear whether these two epigenetic errors are mechanistically linked or occur independently.
This study was performed to determine the relationship between DNA hypomethylation, hypermethylation and microsatellite instability in cancer.
The mechanisms responsible for generating rhythmic motor activity in the developing spinal cord of the chick embryo are poorly understood.
Guanylyl cyclases (GCs) catalyze the formation of the second messenger guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) from guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP).
Biogeographic models partition ecologically similar species assemblages into discrete ecoregions.
However, the history, relationship and interactions between these regions and their assemblages have rarely been explored.
The future hydrogen economy offers a compelling energy vision, but there are four main obstacles: hydrogen production, storage, and distribution, as well as fuel cells.
Hydrogen production from inexpensive abundant renewable biomass can produce cheaper hydrogen, decrease reliance on fossil fuels, and achieve zero net greenhouse gas emissions, but current chemical and biological means suffer from low hydrogen yields and/or severe reaction conditions.
Melanin pigments are ubiquitous in nature.
Melanized microorganisms are often the dominating species in certain extreme environments, such as soils contaminated with radionuclides, suggesting that the presence of melanin is beneficial in their life cycle.
Current recommendations suggest starting enteral feeding as soon as possible whenever the gastrointestinal tract is functioning.
The present commentary focuses on some recent findings regarding the nutritional support of critically ill patients and proposes to promote mixed nutrition support by enteral nutrition (EN), and by parenteral nutrition (PN) whenever EN is insufficient.
Left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction causes substantial morbidity and mortality, even with optimal pharmacotherapy.
ESTIMATED COMPLETION DATE: September 2010.
TRIAL ALGORITHM: [flowchart: see text].
In malaria-endemic regions, strategies to control malaria during pregnancy rely on case management of malaria illness and anemia, and preventive measures such as insecticide-treated nets and intermittent preventive therapy (IPT).
High intraabdominal pressures during laparoscopy (greater than 15 mm Hg) are dangerous.
Pressures developed during translumenal endosurgery when using flexible endoscopes without feed-back regulation are unknown.
Overweight, weight cycling, and obesity are major health risks with psychological effects that should not be overlooked by mental health professionals.
Pseudotumoral chronic pancreatitis can be difficult to differentiate from pancreatic carcinoma.
Immunophilin ligands and phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors are touted to promote erectile function recovery after cavernous nerve (CN) injury.
However, the mechanisms for their effects remain unclear.
Depression and antidepressant therapy have been associated with sexual dysfunction in short-term and point-prevalence trials.
The anterolateral abdominal wall muscles (AAWMs) are composed of the external and internal oblique, transversus abdominis, and the rectus abdominis muscles.
It has been reported that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) may cause sexual dysfunction.
Treatment with pharmacological agents alone does not address the complexities of the causative or resulting psychological issues.
Headaches are common after a motor vehicle accident (MVA).
Post-traumatic headaches share many clinical symptoms including the clinical course of primary headaches.
Secondary headaches (including those resulting from a subdural hematoma) are not as common, but should be considered in cases of post-traumatic events particularly if clinical symptoms progress.
Fewer patients mean less income for practitioners.
Some chiropractors are responding to these pressures by marketing health products, and services.
Thermal pattern analysis is thought to be an indicator of health.
However, the validity of this concept has not been established.
To further investigate the relationship between thermal pattern analysis and health perceptions, thermal scans were assessed in conjunction with results from the SF-12 health survey.
Changhua Christian Hospital.
University PhD scholarships.
National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, USA.
National Nutrition &amp; Food Technology Research Institute, Tehran, Iran.
In a pilot study, we found that the novel gasotransmitter, hydrogen sulfide (H2S), had a vasodilatory and proerectile action on the cavernosum.
In the present work, we explored the ability of the cavernosum to synthesize H2S and its mechanism on the cavernosal pathways.
Studying placebo responses may elucidate predictors of symptom reduction and responsiveness to intervention.
The literature shows a discrepancy in the association between child sexual abuse (CSA) and adult sexual function.
One of the proposed explanations for this discrepancy is the different ways in which CSA is assessed.
While some studies explicitly ask potential participants whether they are sexual abuse survivors, others ask whether participants experienced specific unwanted sexual behaviors.
Physicians depend on the medical literature to keep current with clinical information.
Little is known about residents' ability to understand statistical methods or how to appropriately interpret research outcomes.
Growing evidence suggests that recurrent acute pancreatitis leads to chronic pancreatitis, but this sequence is seldom reported in human subjects.
The sentinel acute pancreatitis event hypothesis suggests that an initial episode of acute pancreatitis is the first step in a complicated series of events ultimately leading to chronic pancreatitis.
Iatrogenic ampullary stenosis is a late complication of endoscopic interventions that affects the sphincter of Oddi.
Milk has an outstanding nutritional quality but is also an excellent medium for bacterial growth and an important source of bacterial infection when consumed without pasteurization.
The recent introduction of sachet water to consumers was to provide safe, hygienic and affordable instant drinking water to the public.
Although this is a laudable idea current trends seem to suggest that sachet drinking water could be a route of transmission of enteric pathogens.
Malignant neoplasms are set to become a leading cause of childhood death in sub-Saharan Africa as immunization programmes reduce deaths due to infectious diseases.
Knowledge of the pattern of deaths from these neoplasms is therefore desirable.
Remote areas remain underserved and access to care very limited.
Recognizing teleconsultation as an effective way to improve access to health care and health information, a noncommercial open-access Web-based application for teleconsultation called Doctor Chat was developed.
Few treatment options exist that address the complex multilayered etiological determinants of female sexual dysfunction (FSD).
While sexual dysfunctions are closely related to overall well-being, epidemiological data based on population-based surveys remain scant.
Intratemporal skull base tumors may invade the facial nerve in the horizontal (tympanic) or descending (vertical) segments, while parotid malignancies typically infiltrate the facial nerve at the stylomastoid foramen.
This article will describe our results following intratemporal facial nerve grafting in 44 patients.
The potential existence of benefits for group living derived from a purely statistical principle is highly intriguing and it has implications for the origins of sociality.
The soil fungus Rhizoctonia solani anastomosis group 3 (AG-3) is an important pathogen of cultivated plants in the family Solanaceae.
Isolates of R. solani AG-3 are taxonomically related based on the composition of cellular fatty acids, phylogenetic analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and beta-tubulin gene sequences, and somatic hyphal interactions.
However, little information is available on how field populations of R. solani AG-3 on potato and tobacco are shaped by population genetic processes.
In this study, two field populations of R. solani AG-3 from potato in North Carolina (NC) and the Northern USA; and two field populations from tobacco in NC and Southern Brazil were examined using sequence analysis of two cloned regions of nuclear DNA (pP42F and pP89).
In April 2004, an incentive based contract was introduced to UK primary care.
ICJME-qualified registry of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa (number 217849).
Prolactin is one of the most potent growth stimulating growth hormones of pancreatic beta cells.
Trauma.
Valio Ltd, R&amp;D.
Health professions shortage areas (HPSAs) nurse practitioners (NP) medically underserved areas (MUAs) West Virginia Rural Health Education Partnerships (WVRHEP).
Early excision with autograft-allograft closure is standard in severe burn management.
Cadaver skin is associated with risks such as antigenicity, infection, and limited availability and shelf life.
Previous studies have shown that Integra is safe to use in burns of &lt;20% total body surface area.
However, the suitability of its use in large burns (&gt;50% total body surface area), its effects on postburn hypermetabolism, and the long-term cosmetic and functional results have not yet been evaluated.
Nystatin was superior to placebo in relieving these symptoms.
This provides some support for the hypotheses that underpin the "Candida syndrome".
The dream has always been of interest to psychiatrists.
It can assist with the diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric disorders.
The Government of Ghana's fee exemption policy for delivery care introduced in September 2003, aimed at reducing financial barriers to using maternal services.
In Ghana, a universal free delivery policy was implemented to improve access to delivery care in health facilities, thereby improving access to skilled attendance and reducing maternal mortality.
Several health authorities have recently revised the indication of infliximab (IFX) to include the treatment of early rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
The aim of this systematic review of the literature was to appraise the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness of early therapy with IFX.
An increased and prolonged duration of pain relief after morphine administration has been found in elderly patients.
Whether this is due to alterations in pharmacokinetics, receptor binding profile or other factors remains unsolved.
There is growing concern about the health effects of ambient air pollution (AP) in children.
The present article describes an innovative theatre production that has been running in The Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, Ontario, for the past 15 years.
It is directed at, and created for, hospitalized children and their families.
The effects of hospitalization on children and their families are reviewed, and the benefits of humour and support during the stressful time the children have to spend in the hospital is highlighted.
The play and its message, as well as possible health benefits, are also described.
The play described is the first regular children's theatre created by medical staff for hospitalized children.
It is valuable because it may result in other hospitals following this example, and because it may generate research on the effects of theatre on patients and their families.
Given the small cohort numbers and complexity of many congenital anomalies, an integrated network of accurate and timely information sharing is essential for evidence-based best clinical practice and outcomes.
Particularly high rates have been reported in the Inuit population.
Most clinical clerks (third-year medical students) do their paediatric rotation at the IWK Health Centre, the Dalhousie University-affiliated tertiary care paediatric institution in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Controversy exists regarding its seasonal timing.
Assessing the views of residents anticipating the examination is relevant to examination administrators.
The diagnosis and treatment plans proposed by ORBIS Telemedicine partners, all of whom were ophthalmologists, via Cyber-Sight, in four ophthalmic sub-specialty categories were compared to those suggested by expert mentors.
To compare nepafenac 0.1% with placebo and ketorolac 0.5% for prevention and treatment of ocular pain and inflammation after cataract surgery.
Non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis (NCPF) is an important cause of portal hypertension (PHT) and variceal bleeding, especially in the developing countries.
While the hepatic parenchyma and liver functions are normal, the patho-anatomic defect in these patients is pre- and peri-sinusoidal in nature.
A major prerequisite for living related liver transplantation is to ensure both donor safety and optimal graft quality.
Therefore, excluding unsuitable donor candidates should be an important priority of the transplant team.
Until now, cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells were assumed to be part of the type I natural killer T (NKT) cell population, but it was not yet investigated if this is correct.
Excessive exposure to solar ultraviolet radiation is involved in the complex biologic process of cutaneous aging.
Since failure of vasectomy may result in pregnancy, adequate counseling is essential.
Couples are advised that an analysis of a semen specimen after vasectomy is required to confirm success before the use of alternative contraception is abandoned.
Endopyelotomy and laparoscopic pyeloplasty are established procedures for ureteropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) and historically a high failure rate has been observed in poorly functioning units with UPJ obstruction.
We present our eight-year experience with open nephron-sparing surgery (NSS) in renal tumors with contralateral normal kidney to assess its oncological efficacy and safety.
Previous studies have supported the association between hypertension and erectile dysfunction (ED).
Various grafts have been used in the treatment of urinary incontinence and pelvic prolapse.
Autologous materials such as muscle and fascia were first utilized to provide additional anatomic support to the periurethral and pelvic tissues; however, attempts to minimize the invasiveness of the procedures have led to the use of synthetic materials.
Complications such as infection and erosion or extrusion associated with these materials may be troublesome to manage.
We review the literature and describe a brief overview of grafts used in pelvic floor reconstruction and focus on the management complications specifically related to synthetic materials.
Little is known about the aetiology of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL).
The family medical history is a "genomic tool" capturing interactions of genetic susceptibility, shared environment and common behaviours.
Gastric malignancy is one of the most common causes for cancer-related deaths.
Reports from the west have shown a paradigm shift in the site of occurrence with malignancies of the gastric cardium increasing in frequency, reports which are contrary to information from the Middle East and South Asia.
The existing conventional liver function tests (LFTs) are indirect, inferior and have limited prognostic value.
Antisecretory drugs (ASDs) are prescribed for preventing and treating nonsteroidal, antiinflammatory drug (NSAID)-induced gastrointestinal adverse effects and for stress ulcer prophylaxis (SUP).
The suitability of long-term use of ASDs has been evaluated elsewhere but not in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA).
Tuberculosis continues to be a common disease in Iran and one of its presentations is abdominal tuberculosis.
Histopathological confirmation of abdominal tuberculosis is difficult because of suboptional, noninvasive access to the pathology.
Laparoscopy provides minimally invasive access to the peritoneum.
A simulation model of the glucose-insulin system in normal life conditions can be very useful in diabetes research, e.g., testing insulin infusion algorithms and decision support systems and assessing glucose sensor performance and patient and student training.
A new meal simulation model has been proposed that incorporates state-of-the-art quantitative knowledge on glucose metabolism and its control by insulin at both organ/tissue and whole-body levels.
This article presents the interactive simulation software GIM (glucose insulin model), which implements this model.
Regulation of plasma glucose concentration for type 1 diabetic patients is challenging, and exercise is an added complication.
From a metabolic prospective, the significant exercise-induced effects are increased glucose uptake rate by the working tissues, increased hepatic glucose release to maintain overall glucose homeostasis, and decreased plasma insulin concentration.
During prolonged exercise, glucose levels drop significantly because of the decrease in hepatic glucose production.
With the long-term goal of developing a closed-loop insulin delivery system operating under various physiological conditions, it is necessary to develop a model that is capable of predicting blood glucose concentration at rest and during physical activity.
Strict blood glucose control by applying nurse-driven protocols is common nowadays in intensive care units (ICUs).
Implementation of a predictive control system can potentially reduce the workload for medical staff but requires a model for accurately predicting the glycemia signal within a certain time horizon.
Currently, monitoring blood glucose levels for diabetic patients is invasive and painful, involving pricking the finger to obtain a blood sample three to four times daily.
In order to raise compliance, we propose to create an implantable electrochemical sensor array that would monitor glucose levels continuously.
In diabetes treatment, microdialysis probes have been used as sampling systems coupled to a glucose biosensor but may struggle to obtain high recoveries of analytes, as the sampling housing, probes, and glucose sensors are fabricated as separate pieces and then assembled, resulting in a large dead volume, which limits sensing frequency.
To evaluate the feasibility of an implantable fiber-coupled fluorescence affinity sensor (FAS) for glucose monitoring in humans, we studied the acute and chronic in vivo performance in hairless rats and pigs.
AIDA v4 is an interactive educational diabetes simulator that has been made available, for over a decade, without charge via the Internet.
The software is currently freely accessible at http://www.2aida.org.
This report sets out a collaborative development plan to enhance the program with a new model of subcutaneous insulin absorption, which permits the simulation of rapidly acting and very long-acting insulin analogues, as well as insulin injection doses larger than 40 units.
Selectivity issues are explored for different multivariate calibration models based on noninvasive near-infrared spectra collected from an animal model.
Herein, we present the technology and evaluate the efficacy of a truly noninvasive device for continuous blood glucose monitoring, the NBM (OrSense Ltd.).
Recent developments and expected near-future improvements in continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices provide opportunities to couple them with mathematical forecasting models to produce predictive monitoring systems for early, proactive glycemia management of diabetes mellitus patients before glucose levels drift to undesirable levels.
This article assesses the feasibility of data-driven models to serve as the forecasting engine of predictive monitoring systems.
Because anti-inflammatory therapies are used routinely to control inflammation in a wide variety of diseases, we hypothesized that anti-inflammatory therapy would likely extend glucose sensor function in vivo.
To test this hypothesis, we utilized our recently developed mouse model of implantable glucose sensors and the potent anti-inflammatory steroid dexamethasone (DEX).
The DIABTel system, a Web-based telemedicine application, integrates a whole communication system (glucometer, insulin pump, wireless hand-held assistant) for medical remote advice.
The Karlsburg Diabetes Management System (KADIS) was developed over almost two decades by modeling physiological glucose-insulin interactions.
Clinical trials are increasingly being designed to collect data directly from patients through the use of paper diaries or electronic diaries (e-diaries).
E-diaries can be advantageous over paper diaries, but actual benefits may depend on the particular features of a given e-diary.
The objective of this study was to determine which e-diary system features are most important to consider when selecting such a tool.
Until recently, titration of insulin in type 2 diabetes clinical trials was typically left up to the investigator's discretion with a simple statement of the target ranges for glucose.
In type 2 diabetes trials the average glycemic control achieved was usually less than desirable.
The objective of this article is to provide a review of the evidence to date.
Intragastric balloons have been used for weight loss with varying success.
Development of a balloon that does not require endoscopy suggests that obesity treatment with intragastric balloons is feasible.
No reports could be found in the literature describing a method to quantitate lispro insulin's entire concentration range, nor could we find detailed information on pH effects.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the use of a reversed-phase HPLC method to quantitate Humalog insulin at three levels of pH.
Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) sensors measure glucose concentration in the interstitial fluid (ISF).
Equilibration between plasma and ISF glucose is not instantaneous.
Therefore, ISF and plasma glucose concentrations exhibit different dynamic patterns, particularly during rapid changes.
The purpose of this work was to investigate how well plasma glucose can be reconstructed from ISF CGM data.
The fear of hypoglycemia remains an important limiting factor in the ability of an individual with type 1 diabetes to tightly regulate glycemia.
The introduction of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) devices has dramatically increased the amount of information available about each patient.
While CGM has become a useful diagnostic tool for the individual patient, interpretive issues including noise reduction remain and further analytical work is needed to fully utilize the data richness.
Since the advent of subcutaneous glucose sensors, there has been intense focus on characterizing the delay in the interstitial fluid (ISF) glucose response and the effect of insulin to alter the plasma-to-ISF glucose gradient.
If so, the estimated delay may be because of the filter rather than the ISF.
There has been considerable debate on what constitutes a good hypoglycemia (Hypo) detector and what is the accuracy required from the continuous monitoring sensor to meet the requirements of such a detector.
Even less information is available on the cost-effectiveness of performing SMBG by this patient group.
The goal of this study was to establish cost-effectiveness ratios of performing SMBG by patients afflicted by this disease.
Regimens of simple constant subcutaneous delivery of insulin may provide theoretical advantages in type 2 diabetes.
How smoothly insulin is injected is one of the major concerns when patients commence insulin injection therapy.
Improving its usability may be important in initiation therapy and adherence, resulting in clinical benefits to the patient.
Our research group has been involved since 1996 in two projects funded by the European Union proposing innovative architectures and services according to the best current medical practices and advances in the information technology area.
Overall obesity and, as it is increasingly appreciated, body fat distribution and ectopic fat deposition in liver and skeletal muscle, determine insulin resistance in humans.
However, little is known about the independence of these relationships.
Therefore, we determined the impact of different fat depots as well as fat accumulation in ectopic tissues such as liver and skeletal muscle in the prediction of insulin resistance in healthy humans.
Approved for treatment of treatment-resistant depression and for epilepsy, vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) therapy involves stimulation of the vagus nerve, affecting both mood and appetite regulating systems.
Studies of its impact on food intake and weight with humans are limited.
The AIDA interactive educational diabetes simulator has been available without charge for over a decade via the Internet (see www.2aida.org).
Part 1 of this report [J Diabetes Sci Technol.
2007;1(3):423-35] described the model components to be integrated to enhance the utility of the software, with the aim being to provide enhanced functionality and educational simulations of regimens utilizing insulin analogues, as well as insulin doses greater than 40 units.
This report provides some preliminary subcutaneous insulin absorption bench testing results for the updated modeling prototype.
The development of artificial pancreas has received a new impulse from recent technological advancements in subcutaneous continuous glucose monitoring and subcutaneous insulin pump delivery systems.
However, the availability of innovative sensors and actuators, although essential, does not guarantee optimal glycemic regulation.
Closed-loop control of blood glucose levels still poses technological challenges to the automatic control expert, most notable of which are the inevitable time delays between glucose sensing and insulin actuation.
A primary challenge for closed-loop glucose control in type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is the development of a control strategy that will be applicable during all daily activities, including meals, stress, and exercise.
Although tissue hemorrhages, with resulting blood clots, are associated with glucose sensor implantation, virtually nothing known is about the impact of red blood cells and red blood cell clots on sensor function in vitro or in vivo.
In these studies, we tested the hypothesis that blood can directly interfere with glucose sensor function in vitro.
Several studies have used linear regression, but a straight line will descend into negative hemoglobin A1c values (an impossibility).
The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial and United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study highlighted hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) as the main predictor of diabetic complications.
Currently, diabetes is managed by frequent capillary spot glucose measurements, but continuous monitoring systems may have the capacity of improving diabetic control.
The glucose binding protein (GBP) is one of many soluble binding proteins found in the periplasmic space of gram-negative bacteria.
These proteins are responsible for chemotactic responses and active transport of chemical species across the membrane.
Upon ligand binding, binding proteins undergo a large conformational change, which is the basis for converting these proteins into optical biosensors.
The ability to measure glucose concentration through noninvasive approaches would impact the treatment of diabetes significantly.
Polarization-based optical approaches have received considerable interest because of their potential medical applications.
The magnitude of each effect is related to the concentration of glucose.
Glycohemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) is a universally accepted tool for glycemic control.
Portable HbA1c devices for use in physicians' offices are desirable because they provide immediate results that physicians can share with their patients.
Type 2 diabetes has increased in prevalence among youth, paralleling the increase in pediatric obesity.
Goal setting and goal review are critical components of behavior change.
Theory-informed video games that emphasize development and refinement of goal setting and goal review skills provide a method for achieving energy balance in an informative, entertaining format.
We studied whether significant differences exist between Hispanic-Americans (H-A) and Caucasian-Americans (C-A) in body dimensions using a newly validated three-dimensional photonic scanner (3DPS).
We developed a method to provide a quantitative and qualitative assessment of this behavior.
Continuous amperometric sensors that measure glucose or lactate require a stable sensitivity, and glutaraldehyde crosslinking has been used widely to avoid enzyme loss.
Nonetheless, little data is published on the effectiveness of enzyme immobilization with glutaraldehyde.
Thanks to the current progress in electronics and sensor fabrication technology, both the time and the blood sample volume required for the measurement have decreased drastically.
However, devices that work with an even smaller sample volume and a shorter measurement time are in demand.
Although a useful, and a necessary component of diabetes management, logbooks can be incomplete, inaccurate and illegible, which may lead to faulty analyses of BG trends associated with meals, medications and daily activities.
Ascensia, WinGLUCOFACTS, Professional Software (WinGLUCOFACTS) from Bayer HealthCare was developed to assist in diabetes management by providing text and graphic presentations of downloaded data.
It has a unique Data Wizard tool that automatically identifies BG trends.
Anecdotal reports from pediatric sites have indicated that some blood glucose meters may display wrong and misleading numbers rather than error indications, when operated in deviation from the instructions for use (IFU), eg by manipulating the strip during the count-down phase.
Hyperglycemia is prevalent in critical care and tight control can save lives.
Current ad-hoc clinical protocols require significant clinical effort and produce highly variable results.
Model-based methods can provide tight, patient specific control, while addressing practical clinical difficulties and dynamic patient evolution.
Many students need to learn about diabetes for their personal care, or desire to learn about diabetes to develop a career in healthcare.
Most teenagers are adept at learning through Web-based computer tools.
There is no available glucose standard for whole blood.
None of the various glucose controls can be used as standards (calibrators) for glucose meters or test strips.
Furthermore, it describes the performance of the standard developed by Streck.
The logical conclusion in the evolution of exogenous insulin therapy is to develop an automated closed-loop control system.
The performance of implantable glucose sensors is closely related to the behavior of the outer membrane.
This manuscript discusses the selection of various membrane materials and their effect on the device response.
There is increasing evidence that insulin resistance (IR) has an important implication in the pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a common endocrinopathy in women.
Use of the home blood pressure monitor (HBPM) for aiding in the control of hypertension is noteworthy because of benefits that accrue from following a home measurement regimen.
To be usable by blind and visually impaired patients, HBPMs must have speech output to convey all screen information, an easily readable visual display, identifiable controls that are easy to use, and an accessible user manual.
Selection of what blood glucose monitoring system to utilize has become an issue for physicians, diabetes educators, pharmacists, and patients.
The field of competing makes and models of blood glucose monitoring systems has become crowded, with manufacturers touting improvements in accuracy, ease of use/alternate site options, stored results capacity, software evaluation tools, and/or price point.
This long-term, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study examined the efficacy of extended release quetiapine fumarate (quetiapine XR) in preventing psychotic relapse in schizophrenia.
Ultrasound in the emergency department has potentially added an objective data point to assist in this decision.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth leading cause of death in the United States, and millions of COPD patients are disabled and unable to work.
The purpose of this study was to determine which participants were likely to consistently attend a PR program.
Breast cancer is by far the most frequent cancer of women.
However the preventive measures for such problem are probably less than expected.
The objectives of this study are to assess breast cancer knowledge and attitudes and factors associated with the practice of breast self examination (BSE) among female teachers of Saudi Arabia.
Critical appraisal of scientific literature is an integral part of Evidence Based Medicine (EBM).
Injuries are a focus of public health practice because they pose a serious health threat, occur frequently, and are preventable.
Globally, thousands of people attend their local Emergency Department daily after suffering a head injury.
Early diagnosis and appropriate management improves outcomes but is sometimes more difficult to achieve than might be imagined.
Of all types of injury, those to the brain are among the most likely to result in death or permanent disability.
Misoprostol has been extensively researched for its use in obstetrics and has proved to be a very effective cervical softening agent before termination of pregnancy.
The beneficial effects on cervical ripening may make misoprostol a desirable agent for helping cervical dilatation on non pregnant women also.
Chronic hepatitis C Virus (HCV) infection may be associated with numerous extrahepatic manifestations, such as mixed cryoglobulinaemia, membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, sicca syndrome.
Cryoglobulinaemia (CG) is a condition characterized by the presence of serum proteins that reversibly precipitate in the cold.
Thousands of infants are born each year with chromosomal abnormalities that severely impact physical and mental development.
Among common genetic disorders are Down syndrome (trisomy 21) and sex chromosomal disorders.
According to the most current studies, the rate varies from 9.5 to 33.7 percent of all pregnancies annually.
In the absence of a ripe or favorable cervix, a successful vaginal birth is less likely.
Therefore, cervical ripening or preparedness for induction should be assessed before a regimen is selected.
Management gurus have long since established a relationship between the attitudes held by an organization's work force and its job satisfaction.
The foundations of individual behavior lie in individual attitudes, and employee attitudes, if understood properly, can be modified by operant conditioning.
In the majority of infertile females, cause lies within the fallopian tubes.
The causes for tubal obstruction include tuabal endometriosis, chlamydial and tuberculous infections, salpingitis, due to previous tubal approach, previous tubal pregnancy, peritubal adhesions due to previous appendicectomy, ovarian, uterine or adnexal operations.
Other less important but easily treatable significant causes include tubal obstruction due to debris, fine adhesions or even unexplained tubal spasm.
Proximal tubal obstruction is seen in 10-20% of HSG examinations.
The EAEC strains have been associated classically with persistent diarrhea which represents a disproportionate share of diarrheal mortality.
The use of biofilm assays as a screening method for EAEC from clinical isolates and multiplex PCR as confirmatory method may be useful.
The maternal mortality ratio (MMR) in Pakistan is estimated at 400 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births.
However, most births in the rural areas take place at home, conducted by untrained traditional birth attendants.
Increased oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy and neuropathy.
Angiotensin II is a know factor in the pathogenesis of diabetic complications.
The protective effects of ACEIs is known in diabetic nephropathy.
Thus, Angiotensin receptor antagonists may have the same role.
In this study, possible antidiabetic effect of Telmisartan and its tissues antioxidant effect in (STZ) induced diabetic rats, were studied
Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death in the western world.
Occlusion of coronary arteries reduces coronary blood flow and oxygen delivery to the myocardium (heart muscle).
The rupture of an unstable atherosclerotic plaque may result in myocardial infarction.
If left untreated, CAD can result in heart failure and, subsequently, death.
According to the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, 54% of all cardiovascular deaths are due to CAD.
Patient characteristics (e.g., age, sex, and genetics), underlying clinical conditions that predispose to cardiac conditions (e.g., diabetes, hypertension, and elevated cholesterol), lifestyle characteristics, (e.g., obesity, smoking, and physical inactivity), and, more recently, determinants of health (e.g., socioeconomic status) may predict the risk of getting CAD.
In 2004/2005, The Ontario government funded approximately 15,400 percutaneous (through the skin) coronary interventions and 7,840 coronary bypass procedures for the treatment of CAD.
These numbers are expected to reach 22,355 for percutaneous coronary interventions and 12,323 for coronary bypass procedures in 2006/2007.
In Ontario in 2000/2001, $457.9 million (Cdn) was spent on invasive ($237.4 million) and noninvasive ($220.5 million) cardiac services.
The use of noninvasive cardiac tests, in particular, is rising rapidly.
Human papillomavirus is extremely prevalent, particularly in young, sexually active populations.
Anal cancer is rare.
It is the least common of the lower gastrointestinal cancers, representing about 4% of them, in contrast to colorectal cancers, which remain the third most commonly diagnosed malignancy.
The introduction of effective viral therapy has been said to have transformed the AIDS epidemic in developed countries into a chronic disease state of long-term immunosuppression.
In Ontario, there are about 25,000 people living with HIV infection; more than 6,000 of these are women.
About 28% of the newly diagnosed HIV infections are in women, a doubling since 1999.
It has also been estimated that 1 of 3 people living with HIV do no know it.
Anal cytology classified by the standardized Bethesda System is the same classification used for cervical cytology.
It has 4 categories: normal, atypical squamous cells of uncertain significance, or squamous intraepithelial lesions which are further classified into low- or high-grade lesions.
Several HPV deoxyribonucleic acid detection technologies such as the Hybrid 11 Capture and the polymerase chain reaction are available to detect and differentiate HPV viral strains.
Unlike cervical cancer, there are no universally accepted guidelines or standards of care for anal dysplasia.
Moreover, there are no formal screening programs provincially, nationally, or internationally.
In Ontario, reimbursement exists only for Pap tests for cervical cancer screening.
That is, there is no reimbursement for anal Pap testing in men or women, and HPV screening tests for cervical or anal cancer are also not reimbursed.
The H.E.L.P.
System (B.Braun Medizintechnologie GmbH, Germany) has been licensed by Health Canada since December 2000 as a Class 3 medical device (Licence # 26023) for performing LDL apheresis to acutely remove LDL from the plasma of 3 high-risk patient populations for whom diet has been ineffective and maximum drug therapy has either been ineffective or not tolerated.
The 3 patient groups are as follows: Functional hypercholesterolemic homozygotes with LDL-C &gt;500 mg/dL (&gt;13mmol/L);Functional hypercholesterolemic heterozygotes with LDL-C &gt;300 mg/dL (&gt;7.8mmol/L);Functional hypercholesterolemic heterozygotes with LDL-C &gt;200 mg/dL (&gt;5.2mmol/L) and documented CADNo other LDL apheresis system is currently licensed in Canada.
Nutritional anemia (NA) is common in India.
The aim of study is to compare the external osteotomy vs. internal osteotomy in patients undergoing rhinoplasty.
The aim of study was to evaluate the effects of spreader graft in septorhinoplasty.
Chronic suppurative otitis media takes a lot of time in the hospital outdoors and a considerable amount of O.T.
timings.
Chronic suppurative otitis media may be either active chronic otitis media or a sequel of previous otitis media.
Among HIV positive patients the CD4 lymphocyte count, especially the viral load, are the best predictors for progress to full blown AIDS or death.
There is scarcity of data on prognostic significance of HER-2/neu in Indian breast cancer.
Necrotizing fascitis is a progressive, rapidly spreading, inflammatory infection located in deep fascia.
It may cause necrosis of skin and subcutaneous tissues.
Systematic surveys of undergraduate medical education have cautiously supported the outcomes of Problem Based Learning (PBL) compared with traditional learning.
This article provides a critical overview of PBL, its limitations in the developing country scenario and our proposed model of PBL triggered by Real cases, to address these limitations.
The art of administering immunosuppression lies in the ability to achieve a delicate balance between rejection and infection, thus maximizing patient survival and minimizing morbidity.
Columnar cell lesions (CCL) of the breast range from the innocuous CAPSS (Columnar alteration with prominent apical snouts and secretions) to DCIS.
Their precancerous potential poses diagnostic and therapeutic riddles, especially for those with mammographic microcalcifications.
Acute appendicitis poses a significant diagnostic challenge to the surgeon.
Despite modern advances, the diagnosis of appendicitis remains essentially clinical.
Ultrasonography is effective in supplementing the clinical diagnosis.
Pseudoaneurysm (PS) and aneurismal dilation of vein (ADV) are recognized complications of arteriovenous fistulas (AVF) in patients on hemodialysis.
Role of bypass as a palliative surgery for advanced gastric cancer remains controversial.
The major problems that patients in rural areas face are related to accessibility, affordability and availability.
Evaluation of exposition to Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and compare urinary level of urinary biological exposure index in sweepers in West of Iran.
Although adolescents' risky behaviors are known as unplanned or unintentional, preventative behaviors are intentional.
The aim of the present study was to assess students' behavior intentions to avoid drug abuse.
The recognition of road traffic noise as one of the main sources of environmental pollution has led to develop models that enable to predict noise level from fundamental variables.
Traffic noise prediction models are required as aids for designing roads and highways.
In this paper a statistical modelling approach has been used for predicting road traffic noise in Iranian road conditions.
Several epidemiological studies suggest that tobacco smoking increases the risk of oral cancer.
No systematic review, however, has been reported to examine how consistent the evidence is across the studies.
We undertook a meta-analysis of epidemiological studies investigating the magnitude relationship between tobacco smoking and oral cancer.
Conventional health, safety and environment (HSE) are a widely used approach to enhance availability and efficiency of complex systems.
The integrated HSEE system is defined however as integration of conventional HSE with ergonomics approach.
The presented HSEE system introduces a unique, effective and systemic mechanism, which integrates the structure of the human and organizational systems with conventional HSE system.
It is utilized to enhance reliability, availability, maintainability and safety through the proposed integrated framework of this study.
This study presents a framework for development of integrated health, safety and ergonomic (HSE) in complex critical systems.
Total ergonomics model considers conventional ergonomics factors as well as management and organizational factors.
This study was aimed to show the alterations in these factors and their relationships in AMI.
AIDS is acquired by infection with HIV (human immuno-deficiency virus).
It leaves the host susceptible to malignant and unusual infections especially opportunistic ones.
Most of AIDS patients infected with opportunistic parasitic infections die because of chronic diarrhea and deaths due to Cryptosporidium diarrhea in AIDS patients are considerable in the recent two decades.
IUD is one of the safest and most widely used reversible methods of contraception.
This study was conducted to design an on job-training model for the managers of the Iranian Social Security Organization (ISSO) hospitals and any other similar setting.
Needlestick injuries (NSIs) are among the most important occupational injuries for health care workers (HCWs).
In Iran, the problem of exposure to contaminated blood among nursing personnels has not well documented.
As conflicting studies have recently been published, we aimed to evaluate the magnitude of the epidemiological evidence for an association between alcohol consumption and gastric cancer.
Intravenous disodium pamidronate has been described in the treatment of several osteopathies.
Although tolerability has been found to be good in clinical trials, some mild to serious adverse events (AEs) have been reported.
Graft infections are severe complications of vascular surgery that may result in amputation or mortality.
Staphylococci are the most frequent cause of vascular graft infections.
Glycopeptide antibiotics are considered by many investigators to be the last resort in the treatment of gram-positive bacterial infections.
Abstract.
Several combinations with different agents have been used for this purpose in these patients.
However, analgesic properties for these agents have not been reported.
Abstract.
A controlled-release (CR) form of diclofenac-potassium has been developed, which delivers 100 mg over the course of 24 hours.
This formulation is administered QD and provides steady plasmatic levels of the drug.
Abstract.
Proteinuria is considered to be a predictor of the progression of kidney disease.
Abstract.
NSAIDs are a significant cause of drug-related hospital admissions and deaths.
Abstract.
Growing antibiotic resistance demands the constant reassessment of antimicrobial efficacy, particularly in countries with wide antibiotic abuse, where higher resistance prevalence is often found.
Knowledge of resistance trends is particularly important when prescribing antibiotics empirically, as is usually the case for urinary tract infections (UTIs).
Currently, in Mexico City, ampicillin, cotrimoxazole (trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole), and ciprofloxacin are used as "first-line" antibiotic treatment for UTI.
The midwife provides feeding support for new mothers but research suggests that midwives' knowledge of breastfeeding is limited.
Apolipoprotein E (apo E) plays a major role in lipid metabolism, and its genetic variations have been associated with cardiovascular risk.
The fetal programming hypothesis (i.e.
that prenatal conditions are important for the development of cardiovascular diseases) has been used to explain causal mechanisms of arteriosclerosis, such as biological disturbances in the blood vessels of growth-retarded neonates.
Shock: clinical studies (38), Cardiovascular monitoring (34).
The Academy of Finland, the Pivikki and Sakari Sohlberg Foundation, the Helsinki University Central Hospital and the Finnish Foundation for Cardiovascular Research.
Supported by the Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station and UAS Laboratories.
The relationship between clinical judgments of anterior knee laxity and instrumented measurement of anterior tibial translation is unclear.
The medical treatment of advanced testicular germ cell tumors has changed over the past 30 years, with long-term survival now achieved in the majority of patients.
Clinicians need to be familiar with the available treatment regimens for testicular cancer and their associated toxic effects.
Infection with multidrug-resistant, community-associated, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) has been reported but seems to be isolated.
Various methods have been used to remove foreign bodies; hollow foreign bodies deserve special consideration.
The main difficulty encountered in such situations is the anatomic obstacle of the lower and upper esophageal sphincters along with a risk of perforation.
Female sexual dysfunction (FSD), in particular, complaints of low desire, affects many American women.
Despite the impact FSD may have on these women, many do not present their symptoms to their physicians.
Most reports include only a retrospective chart review, and there is a question of whether such data are accurate.
There have been extensive studies evaluating the functional neuroanatomy of the brain during visual sexual stimulation.
However, little data exist concerning the role of olfactory stimulation in human sexuality.
Ischemic priapism (IP) is a urologic condition, which necessitates prompt management.
Aim.
Troponin elevations are common in critically ill patients.
Double-balloon enteroscopy (DBE) allows direct visualization and intervention in the entire small intestine.
Concerns include long procedure times and a long learning curve after training.
Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) plays an important role in the management of gastric neoplasms.
There are few reports regarding stricture development caused by ESD of gastric neoplasms.
Female sexual dysfunction (FSD) is a multifactorial entity and an underestimated problem with an overall prevalence between 20% and 50%.
Prevalence can change according to the diagnostic criteria used, data collection, and others such as psychological and cultural factors.
Population studies of FSD are limited, both in Colombia and in other countries.
Freud implied a link between inability to have a vaginal orgasm and psychosexual immaturity.
Since Kinsey, many sexologists have asserted that no such link exists.
Aims.
However, there has been no basic research to clarify the relationship between OAB and female sexual dysfunction.
Therefore, we investigated this issue using a rabbit model of OAB.
Aim.
This article describes our first implementation in the evolution of this module.
The module was introduced to residents at all postgraduate levels in September 2007.
Correct procedural adoption occurred rapidly after prebriefing and initial hands-on demonstration and supervised practice in simulated patient scenarios on airway mannequins.
Sepsis is a major cause of death in the United States and accounts for approximately 50% of the fatalities in intensive care units.
Although numerous studies address the efficacy and effectiveness of health interventions, less research addresses successfully implementing and sustaining interventions.
As long as efficacy and effectiveness trials are considered complete without considering implementation in nonresearch settings, the public health potential of the original investments will not be realized.
A barrier to progress is the absence of a practical, robust model to help identify the factors that need to be considered and addressed and how to measure success.
A conceptual framework for improving practice is needed to integrate the key features for successful program design, predictors of implementation and diffusion, and appropriate outcome measures.
PRISM--the Practical, Robust Implementation and Sustainability Model--evaluates how the health care program or intervention interacts with the recipients to influence program adoption, implementation, maintenance, reach, and effectiveness.
Azathioprine is frequently used in the treatment of Crohn's disease.
A severe side effect is acute pancreatitis, which is specific for Crohn's disease.
Autoantibodies against exocrine pancreas occur in about 30% of Crohn's disease cases but not in other inflammatory diseases.
Pancreatic autoantibody positive Crohn's disease patients might have a low grade inflammation of the pancreas which may be aggravated by the introduction of azathioprine, resulting in clinically overt acute pancreatitis.
Wegener's granulomatosis is a systemic vasculitis with prominent involvement of the respiratory tract and kidney.
An association between acute pancreatitis and Wegener's granulomatosis is rarely reported and is even rarer as the first presentation.
This can result in diagnostic difficulty and may allow severe pancreatitis to develop with potentially poor outcome.
Given the increase in projects and programs to assess performance in health care in the last 15 years, the purpose of this paper is to review current indicator projects for hospital performance assessment and compare them to the Performance Assessment Tool for Quality Improvement in Hospitals (PATH), an initiative by the WHO Regional Office for Europe.
No pharmaceutical company was involved in this study.
A research grant from the regional research board of Northern Norway has been awarded to finance Dr K.S.O.
's leave from Hammerfest hospital as well as travel expenses between Hammerfest and Oslo, and research courses.
The research grant from Prof B.I.N.
Prof B.I.N.
's research grant also funded insurance for the study participants.
A colonoscopy and a gastroscopy are the most important screening measures for malignant diseases in the GI tract.
One of the main limitations is the lack of patient adherence to come in for a flexible endoscopy, especially in asymptomatic conditions.
Two processes may contribute to the formation of global centers of biodiversity: elevated local speciation rates (the center of origin hypothesis), and greater accumulation of species formed elsewhere (the center of accumulation hypothesis).
The relative importance of these processes has long intrigued marine biogeographers but rarely has been tested.
Computational studies uncovered a class of highly similar isoforms, which were related to tandem 5'-splice sites (5'ss) and 3'-splice sites (3'ss), yet with very sparse anecdotal evidence in experimental studies.
ISRCT No 26872154.
Absenteeism is a major cause of loss in jobs, man-hours, productivity, and lives in the health sector.
It also has grave consequences for global economies.
Voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and treatment of positive pregnant women can reduce mother to child transmission (MTCT) of HIV.
In coeliac disease (CD), the upper bowel lesion is associated with a marked infiltration of the mucosa with Th1 cells secreting interferon gamma (IFNgamma) and expressing the Th1-associated transcription factor, T-bet.
However, the molecular mechanisms which regulate T-bet and promote the Th1 cell response are unknown.
Despite its importance, social participation significantly decreases as age advances.
Social participation may vary by sex and age and, consequently, may have different influences on health by age and sex.
Few studies have examined how sex and age affect individual health status in this regard.
Limited information is available regarding patients' indication for seeking labiaplasty of the labia minora.
In this systematic review, several types of infections are identified and investigated: urinary tract infection, periodontal disease, Chlamydia pneumoniae infection, HIV infection, malaria and other persistent bacterial and viral infections.
This summary review will only focus on the link between pre-eclampsia and periodontitis, which was just a part of the original systematic review.
The trans-sphenoid access to the pituitary gland is becoming the most common approach for pituitary adenomas.
Preoperative evaluation of the anatomy of the sphenoid sinus by computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a routine procedure and can direct the surgical decision.
Aortic occlusion causes ischemia/reperfusion injury, kidney and spinal cord being the most vulnerable organs.
Erythropoietin improved ischemia/reperfusion injury in rodents, which, however, better tolerate ischemia/reperfusion than larger species.
Therefore, we investigated whether erythropoietin attenuates porcine aortic occlusion ischemia/reperfusion injury.
Conflicting data exists regarding the effect of continuity on diabetes care.
In Korea, although male sexual problems have been relatively well addressed, few surveys have been conducted on female sexual dysfunction (FSD) in the general population.
Nasogastric tube feeding is safe and well tolerated in most critically ill patients.
Fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes is a form of diabetes secondary to chronic pancreatitis found in tropical, developing countries.
Endoscopic closure of inadvertent or intentional colon perforations might be valuable if comparable to surgical closure.
A known complication of these devices is severe and sometimes life-threatening GI bleeding, usually related to the presence of angioectasias.
Similar findings in other species suggest that attention to the eyes is a highly conserved phylogenetic mechanism of social development.
Although GIST generally occurs in the digestive tract, such as the stomach, and small and small intestine primarily, Omental GIST tumours are very rare.
Neurotrauma.
The descriptor is pediatrics.
SIRS/sepsis: clinical studies.
Hepatic artery thrombosis following orthotopic liver transplant is one of the most common reasons for early graft failure.
Meticulous reconstitution of hepatic artery flow remains essential for good outcomes.
Prior surgery, body habitus, hepatic artery inadequacy and anatomic differences can complicate hepatic artery revascularization.
Bowel cancer screening using faecal occult blood testing and colonoscopy is currently being rolled out across England.
Guidelines recommend that people identified by colonoscopy as having intermediate- or high-risk bowel polyps be offered periodic surveillance colonoscopy because of their elevated risk of bowel cancer.
We make projections of the likely year-on-year increase in volumes and spending on colonoscopy due to the screening and surveillance programmes.
Hyperuricemia is a predictor for the development of hypertension and is commonly present in new-onset essential hypertension.
Experimentally increasing uric acid levels using a uricase inhibitor causes systemic hypertension in animal models.
The development of network communication science and technology has accorded a special benefit to learning.
Online courses have also become the most popular and important learning resource among students.
Demand for colonoscopy and EGD procedures is increasing.
Impediments to performing these examinations persist.
Patients perceive these procedures as unpleasant and painful.
The use of suboptimal sedatives results in inefficiency in endoscopy practices.
Improving sedation methods utilizing precise control of preferred sedatives may increase patient satisfaction and practice efficiency.
Luminal metastases to the GI tract may be seen at the time of the primary diagnosis or may represent evidence of a distant recurrence.
During fluoroscopy, radiologists and gastroenterologists are able to manipulate live fluoroscopic video for better orientation and visualization.
During endoscopy and natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES), this function is not currently available.
Particularly during NOTES, the endoscopic image is sometimes inverted, and off-axis operation is required.
Analysis of pancreatic cyst fluid can play a role in the management of asymptomatic cystic neoplasms.
There are no validated scales for assessing the psychosocial impact of Peyronie's disease (PD), which affects approximately 5-10% of men over age 50.
Infertility has been associated with anxiety, stress, and sexual problems in both men and women.
Hypercholesterolemia causes a decrease in normal corporal tissue vasoreactivity in a preclinical model of erectile dysfunction.
Previous studies have shown that intracorporal injection (ICI) of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) reverses some of the detrimental vasoreactivity effects of hypercholesterolemia and increases vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression.
Numerous authors evaluated the actions of PDE5i in improving the LUTS/(benign prostate hyperplasia) BPH.
As a result of donor heart shortage, resorting to marginal heart donors is being promoted.
Dobutamine is usually used to support these potential donors and has been proposed to identify the reversible part of the brain death-induced myocardial dysfunction before potential organ donation.
But dobutamine impairs the oxygen supply-demand balance and may increase myocardial ischemia.
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of dobutamine and glucose-insulin-potassium on the left ventricular systolic dysfunction in brain dead patients.
45 (SIRS/sepsis: clinical studies).
28.
Mechanical ventilation: weaning.
The place of long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy (LTPP) within psychiatry is controversial.
Convincing outcome research for LTPP has been lacking.
The success of endoscopic intervention in the management of uncomplicated pancreatic pseudocysts has allowed endoscopists to be more aggressive in managing complicated pancreatic fluid collections.
Surgery is considered the mainstay of therapy once pancreatic abscesses develop.
Sleep disturbances affect daytime behaviour and cognitive functions in children.
These disorders make the situation worse in children who already have learning difficulties.
While most comparisons of hospital outcomes adjust for patient characteristics, process performance comparisons typically do not.
Renal failure: dialysis and hemofiltration.
Dermoid cysts are rare congenital lesions derived from pluripotential cells.
The Melbourne Women's MidLife Health Project (MWMHP) and related studies have yielded valuable information regarding the endocrine changes of the menopausal transition, which are summarized in this review.
45.
SIRS/Sepsis: clinical studies.
A great deal of sub-cellular organelle positioning, and essentially all minus-ended organelle transport, depends on cytoplasmic dynein, but how dynein's function is regulated is not well understood.
BicD is established to play a critical role in mediating dynein function-loss of BicD results in improperly localized nuclei, mRNA particles, and a dispersed Golgi apparatus-however exactly what BicD's role is remains unknown.
Nonetheless, it is widely believed that BicD may act to tether dynein to cargos.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
This information is becoming increasingly important in policy and clinical decisions.
With such a wide range of tools available, careful selection is required to ensure they adequately reflect patient's concerns.
Female sexual dysfunction (FSD) is a common disorder in postmenopausal women.
Currently, there is no clear "gold standard" for the diagnosis of FSD.
GW406381 10, 20, 35, or 50 mg, celecoxib 200 mg, or placebo.
Study B: GW406381 1, 5, 10, 25, or 50 mg, celecoxib 200 mg, or placebo.
Twenty to 30 percent of all transient ischaemic attacks and ischaemic strokes involve tissue supplied by the vertebrobasilar circulation.
Atherosclerotic stenosis &gt;/= 50% in the vertebral artery accounts for vertebrobasilar stroke in at least one third of the patients.
Treatment of vertebral stenosis by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty has been introduced as an attractive treatment option.
Topical Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT), in Italy known as V.A.C.
(Vacuum Assisted Closure) system, is used for the management of chronic wounds not responding to conventional therapies.
To date, no data concerning the impact of this device on pain, functional activities and pain-killers' administration , is available.
Trials have shown favorable impacts on patient knowledge, satisfaction, decisional conflict and confidence.
However, they have not become routinely embedded in health care settings.
Few studies have approached this issue using a theoretical framework.
We explained problems of implementing DSTs using the Normalization Process Model, a conceptual model that focuses attention on how complex interventions become routinely embedded in practice.
Little is known about effective strategies for disseminating and implementing complex clinical innovations across large healthcare systems.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether there is an association between oral contraceptive (OC) use before pregnancy and breastfeeding duration.
The home and neighborhood environments may be important in obesity prevention by virtue of food availability, food preparation, cues and opportunities for physical activity, and family support.
To date, little research has examined how home and neighborhood environments in rural communities may support or hinder healthy eating and physical activity.
Crude aqueous extract of the root bark of Zanthoxylum xanthoxyloides is used in folklore medicine for its anti-inflammatory activity.
Although it shares the analgesic and anti-inflammatory property of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), its mechanism of action has not been well elucidated.
Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMFT) of the temporal bone is an unusual but distinct clinicopathologic entity.
To manage public expenditures in the mid-1990s, British Columbia implemented evidence-based drug coverage policies, including "reference pricing."
Industry lobbied against the province's policy, arguing that reference pricing harms patients and that it is inconsistent with federal and provincial legislation.
Researchers and the courts have studied and rejected industry's claims.
However, industry also threatened to halt R&amp;D investment in British Columbia and continues to so threaten other provinces contemplating evidence-based drug coverage policies.
The purpose of this study is to review evidence regarding these threats.
Effective hospital governance depends on proactive board leadership to minimize risk.
Health systems in developing countries including Ghana are faced with critical resource constraints in pursuing the goal of improving the health status of the population.
The constrained ability to adequately meet health care needs is exacerbated by inefficiency in the health care systems, especially within public health centres.
Scleral buckling is still a common procedure to repair rhematogenous retinal detachment, and acute or chronic infection of the scleral explant is rare.
We report an intractable case of acute scleral explant infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
This paper reports clinical experience with pegaptanib sodium for the treatment of occult or minimally classic choroidal neovascularization (CNV) due to AMD.
We aimed to compare visual and refractive outcome following phacoemulsification and intraocular lens implant (IOL) and combined one-site phacotrabeculectomy.
Pigmented basal cell carcinoma (PBCC) of the eyelid has not been well cited in the literature, and is often overlooked in the differential diagnosis of pigmented eyelid lesions.
We aim to describe PBCC of the eyelid in Hispanic patients.
The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effect of uncomplicated cataract surgery in the thickness of the retina in the foveal area during the early postoperative period.
Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a thermoablative technique to kill tumor tissue by generating areas of coagulative necrosis.
However, the biological effects of RFA on HCC cells have not been directly analyzed.
The aim of this study was to determine whether heat stress of the type associated with RFA induces malignant transformation of HCC.
A retrospective study was undertaken in a UK.
Hyperhomocysteinemia is implicated in the pathogenesis of various liver diseases.
In this study, the effects of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) on hyperhomocysteinemia and steatosis with ethanol-induced liver injury in rats were examined and their mechanisms were explored.
Hepatitis B is a considerable disease burden among Asians.
Little is known about its disease behaviour in pregnant women.
Although hepatitis B seroprevalence has been studied extensively in California and New York, detailed information for other high-risk areas in the United States is lacking.
The toxic hepatitis is the most common manifestation of acute liver disease in patient with alcohol.
Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, to investigate suicide cases during the year 2003.
Street sweepers play an important role in maintaining the health and hygiene within the cities.
Therefore, it was thought necessary to study the morbidity profile in this occupational group.
Injuries account for approximately 11% of all hospital admissions in Sri Lanka.
It is well-known that every health problem, not only presents itself with different epidemiological profiles in different population settings, but is also perceived and managed differently.
Having knowledge of these variations in its presentations and perceptions in different population settings, for example, in urban and rural settings, will be useful for its successful management.
Advances in nonablative skin rejuvenation technologies have sparked a renewed interest in the cosmetic treatment of aging skin.
More options exist now than ever before to reverse cutaneous changes caused by long-term exposure to sunlight.
Although Caucasian skin is more prone to ultraviolet light injury, ethnic skin (typically classified as types IV to VI) also exhibits characteristic photoaging changes.
Widespread belief that inevitable or irreversible textural changes or dyspigmentation occurs following laser- or light-based treatments, has been challenged in recent years by new classes of devices capable of protecting the epidermis from injury during treatment.
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is one of the most common dermatologic disorders with a multifactorial etiology.
Inflammatory activators such as Demodex infestation may play a role in the pathogenesis of some cases of androgenetic alopecia that do not respond to common treatments such as minoxidil and finasteride.
The goal of this study is to evaluate the relationship between Demodex infestation and AGA.
Onychomycosis manifests itself in various forms, notably onychodystrophy, onycholysis, subungual hyperkeratosis, or nail-plate discoloration.
Not necessarily nail changes mentioned here should always be of fungal origin.
Kyrle's disease is a rare variant of primary perforating dermatosis.
Its occurrence in a familial setting, especially in children, is extremely uncommon.
Similar appearing skin lesions have been described in adults, secondary to metabolic disorders, infective agents as well as exposure to chemicals.
We present a rare case of this genodermatosis in two siblings.
The etiology and pathophysiologic mechanism of vitiligo are still unclear.
Herpes Zoster (HZ) is reactivation of latent varicella-zoster virus that involves dermatomes.
Some investigations showed that HZ is more common in diabetic patients than in normal population.
Acne vulgaris is one of the most common skin disorders in youth especially during the puberty.
Onychomycosis is a difficult condition to treat and cure rates are disappointing.
Moreover fungicidal action of antifungal agents in NCCLS assays and their rapid accumulation in nails in vivo are not compatible with the duration of treatment.
Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (CL) is a parasitic disease characterized by single or multiple ulcerations.
Secondary bacterial infection is one of the complications of the disease that can increase the tissue destruction and the resulting scar.
In recent years, skin diseases in wrestling have finally received the attention they deserve.
Outbreaks of tinea corporis are often associated with sports involving extensive bodily contact; such sports include wrestling.
Tinea corporis gladiatorum is primarily caused by Trichophyton tonsurans, infecting wrestlers at alarming rates.
The management of skin infections in wrestlers and other athletes in sports involving skin-to-skin contact entails numerous challenges, from making an accurate diagnosis to determining eligibility for playing the sports.
To control outbreaks, we conducted an epidemiologic investigation.
Development of skin neoplasms is one of the most important chronic complications of radiation therapy.
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most frequent carcinoma occurring at the region of the body to which radiotherapy was delivered.
Pityriasis rosea is a common, acute exanthem of uncertain etiology.
The exact cause of pityriasis rosea is not known but various hypotheses have been postulated incriminating infective agents such as viruses, bacteria, spirochete and noninfective etiologies such as atopy and autoimmune causes have also been investigated.
Relatively little work has been done on this problem in our country.
Research in past has been concentrated mainly on superficial mycoses of the skin.
The pattern of skin diseases varies form one country to another and across different parts within the same country.
A two-day multispecialty medical camp was held among the local population at the district of Kausambi, Allahabad, UP, in October 2005.
A cross section of pattern of skin diseases observed at the camp is reported and compared with similar studies in literature.
Pityriasis versicolor is a mild, chronic, usually asymptomatic superficial fungal infection of the stratum corneum, caused by Malassezia yeasts.
Pulsed dye laser (PDL) has revolutionized treatment of vascular dermatoses.
Systemic sclerosis is a multi-systemic autoimmune disorder.
Acquired myasthenia Gravis (MG), a disorder of impaired neuromuscular transmission is recognized as an autoimmune disorder, with a majority of the patients having antibodies against acetylcholine receptor (AChR antibodies) in the serum.
It aims at cessation of transmission of lymphatic filariasis.
Menstruation and menstrual practices are still clouded by taboos and socio-cultural restrictions resulting in adolescent girls remaining ignorant of the scientific facts and hygienic health practices, which sometimes result into adverse health outcomes.
Injuries are a major cause of death and disability among the adolescents in the world.
Emergence of polyantimicrobial resistant strains of hospital pathogens has presented a challenge in the provision of good quality in-patient care.
Inappropriate use of antibiotics in the hospital is largely responsible for this catastrophe.
Bacteriological surveillance of the cases of nosocomial infections is crucial for framing an evidence-based antimicrobial policy for a hospital.
Domestic accidents are worldwide public health problems.
The consequences of a domestic accident may prove disastrous as it may result in disability and loss of productivity.
Early diagnosis of hypertension (HT) is an important strategy in its control.
Vitiligo is a common skin disorder, and the pathogenesis is unknown.
Mammary and extramammary Paget's diseases are rare neoplasms of epidermis and mucosal epithelium.
Due to their nonspecific and variable clinical view, they have differential diagnosis with eczema, melanoma, Bowen's disease, etc.
In this study, we have evaluated the clinical and histopathological aspects of this disorder.
Systemic sclerosis is a multi-systemic autoimmune disorder affecting predominantly the skin, lungs, gut and kidneys.
During orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), activation of the fibrinolytic system can contribute significantly to perioperative bleeding.
Noise of machines in various agro-based industries was found to be the major occupational hazard for the workers of industries.
The 'papad-making' industries of India have provided ample opportunity of employment for the women workers of low socio-economic class although their problems are not much explored.
In this study an attempt had been made for the same.
No data are available with the labor departments among the workers of small-scale lead-based units with regard to lead poisoning.
One hundred and ninety-five workers were investigated for lead exposure and three were found exceeding the limit of 80 mg/dL, which required a treatment for lead poisoning.
A chromosome 9p21 locus is associated with coronary heart disease in 25 independent populations, but multiple clinically distinct phenotypes have been evaluated.
Using angiographic coronary artery disease (CAD) phenotyping, this study evaluated whether 9p21 single-nucleotide polymorphisms predict ischemic events (eg, myocardial infarction [MI]) among CAD patients.
Current screening tests for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are inconvenient.
Therefore, alternative screening tests for GDM are desirable.
The use of glycohemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) in screening for GDM remains controversial.
This hinders the function of shoulder which is crucial in many activities of daily living.
Tuberculosis continues to be a pressing health problem in India.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD), a broad spectrum of respiratory diseases represents a worldwide problem.
Electrocardiographic (ECG) findings may help in clinical decision making regarding this disease entity.
Very little prospective randomized experimental research exists on the use of simulation as a teaching method, and no studies have compared the two strategies of using the HPS and a CD-ROM.
In addition, no researchers have investigated the effects of simulation on various levels of cognition, specifically lower-level and higher-level cognition or critical thinking.
Obesity is a common problem in primary care, but little is known about Internal Medicine residents' attitudes towards obesity treatment.
Mentoring is important throughout a physician's career and has been noted to be particularly important during residency training.
Other studies suggest that women may experience difficulty in finding mentors.
INTRODUCATION: The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact on knowledge and learner satisfaction of adding a labour and delivery simulator-based training module versus a self-study session to the pre-existing theoretical class, in the 5(th) year undergraduate medical curriculum.
A computer-based learning experience was developed using cognitive flexibility theory to overcome the pitfalls often encountered in existing medical education.
Medical education is perceived as being stressful with negative effects on students' mental health.
LONGER WAVELENGTH LASERS SUCH AS ND: YAG are considered to be the best for darker skin phototypes.
Nevus of Ota is very common in Asian patients.
The condition is more common in females, with a male-female ratio of 1:4.8.
Most patients seek treatment early in life due to the psychological trauma and cosmetic disfigurement.
The Q-switched lasers have changed the way we approach the condition and have become the mainstay of therapy.
Attempted nonsurgical reduction of ileocolic intussusceptions after 48 hours is controversial because of the low probability of reduction and an increased risk of perforation.
Nurses are the primary hospital caregivers.
Increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of nursing care is essential to hospital function and the delivery of safe patient care.
Physical activity is a predictor of maintained weight loss; however, causal mechanisms are unclear.
Behavioral theories suggest that associated psychologic changes may indirectly affect weight loss.
The eight-week intensive summer program promotes interest in science, medicine, and health among young people by introducing students to the professional world of science, broadly defined.
Interns are expected to assist in a specific research project that addresses a scientific question.
At Singapore General Hospital, approximately 240 infants of the 1500 deliveries per annum are delivered preterm, many of very low birth weight-median of 1210 g-often have extended hospital stays, even after they are declared medically fit.
The continuity and coordination of care between medical and behavioral health services is a major issue facing our health care delivery system.
Barriers to basic communication between providers of medical services and providers of behavioral health services, include: no coordination of services, and poor recognition of the relationship between medical and behavioral issues.
The purpose of this project is to ensure safe medication practices and to eliminate medication errors that cause harm to our patients.The Program: KPNC leadership, physicians, nurses, pharmacists, quality leaders, and labor unions worked with regional and local medication safety committees to: 1) standardize high-alert medication-handling practices; 2) enhance education programs related to medication practices, embedding these into annual core competencies of all staff who handle high-alert medications; 3) develop monitoring functions at both the regional and local levels to ensure sustainability and ongoing systems improvements.
Begun in December 2005, this program covers the delivery of high-alert medications across the continuum of care and affects all patients receiving HAM.
Idiopathic intracranial is common in adults, particularly obese young women, but also occurs in children and adolescents.
Traditional primary care models for medically vulnerable populations such as the homeless and injection-drug users do not deliver optimal and efficient medical care.
We propose an integrated model for the delivery of primary care to a vulnerable population emphasizing open access, outreach, groups, and a team approach to care.
Beta-thalassaemia major is a common medical problem worldwide.
In the era of Direct Observation Treatment (DOT) for tuberculosis, clinicians need to focus on high-risk groups.
We present sputum conversion rate at one and two months following DOT and its predictors in Oman.
Smokers; Uric acid; CVD.
Central Serous Chorioretinopathy (CSCR) is characterized by accumulation of subretinal fluid, resulting in neurosensory retinal detachment.
Glycosylated Hemoglobin (HbA1c) reflects the average blood glucose level during the previous 2-3 months.
HbA1c is used as marker for long term blood glucose control in diabetic patients.
Central venous access via the femoral vein (FV) is safe, relatively easy and very usual in infants and children undergoing cardiac surgery for congenital heart disease.
It has a low insertion-related complication rate.
Cardiac arrhythmia in an apparently healthy heart needs a detailed anatomical investigation to detect any unsuspected anomalies such as cardiomyopathy and cardiac tumours.
extended spectrum -lactamase (ESBL) producing gram negative bacilli are becoming a growing problem worldwide with difficulties in designing a national formulary for empirical treatment of gram negative sepsis.
Individual based models have become a valuable tool for modeling the spatiotemporal dynamics of epidemics, e.g.
influenza pandemic, and for evaluating the effectiveness of intervention strategies.
This can be achieved for instance by employing distance-based models or by choosing unstructured contacts in the local communities or by employing commuting data.
Flax lignan complex (FLC) isolated from flaxseed suppresses development of hypercholesterolemic atherosclerosis.
It does not produce regression of atherosclerosis, but prevents its regular diet-induced acceleration following a high-cholesterol diet.
Autologous vein grafts are still the gold standard in infrainguinal arterial bypass grafting procedures.
However, due to the unavailability of suitable autologous vein grafts, heterogeneous grafts are usually preferred.
Little is known about how diurnal variation in blood pressure (BP) levels influence cerebral perfusion in very elderly populations.
The use of diagnostic imaging in the United States continues to increase, while investigations of the clinical implications following testing are lacking.
The objectives of the present study are to describe the practice patterns and clinical outcomes that follow lower extremity diagnostic imaging.
Paclitaxel drug-eluting stents (PES) have been used in the treatment of BCD, with better overall outcomes than BMS.
In the present report, intermediate term outcomes with BCD stenting using TAXUS Express (Boston Scientific, USA) PES are presented from the Genesis Medical Center.
Renal angioplasty has been increasingly used to treat significant renal artery stenosis (RAS).
While considered simple and effective, crystalloid antegrade cardioplegia solutions have had few prospective multicentre comparison trials.
Acute nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) is considered to be acute ischemia of the posterior ciliary arteries.
Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), a powerful microcirculation vasodilator, has been shown to improve ocular blood flow.
The risk of thrombosis can be reduced by mechanical compression, but the optimal device is unknown.
Stroke represents the third leading cause of death in developed countries and the leading cause of disability in the elderly.
Carotid blowout syndrome with pseudoaneurysm, a rapidly progressive pathology, may present emergently with massive oral hemorrhage.
Use of an endograft prosthesis offers a treatment strategy with salvation of the carotid artery.
A 7 x 40 mm Fluency Plus covered stent (Bard Peripheral Vascular, Tempe, Arizona, USA) was placed and was supplemented by a second 8 x 40 mm Fluency Plus stent, with resulting cessation of active contrast extravasation.
Digital subtraction angiography is the gold standard for quantitative imaging although other modalities can also be used.
The management of these patients remains controversial.
Endovascular treatment can prevent rupture, but involves immediate risks.
Furthermore, successful treatment does not eliminate all risk of rupture.
The safety and efficacy of endovascular treatment of unruptured aneurysms remain undetermined.
Hence the balance of the risks and benefits is uncertain.
A randomized trial is needed to assess the potential benefits of endovascular management of unruptured aneurysms.
TEAM (Trial on Endovascular Aneurysm Management) is a randomized trial comparing endovascular treatment versus conservative management of unruptured aneurysms.
TEAM aims to recruit 2002 patients in 60 centers throughout the world over a 3-year period and to follow all patients for 10 years.
The primary outcome is to verify if the clinical outcome (morbidity/mortality (modified Rankin scale &gt; 2) related to the aneurysm or its treatment) can be improved from 8% to 4%.
The study is funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.
Clinical trials are essential for the development of new treatments.
Stroke can advesely affect movements, sensations, alertness, awareness, coordination, and judgement, all of which may impair the ability to drive a car.
Apart from both primary and secondary prevention with oral antiplatelet agents, acute treatment is currently limited to recombinant tissue plasminogen activator and interventional therapy.
Current antiplatelet agents in use affect platelet aggregation at different steps.
Selective inhibition of glycoproteins has been employed already (GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors) but there are other glycoproteins that can be targeted.
This is based on research that shows that monoclonal antibody mediated inhibition decreases the burden of disease in mouse models of stroke.
A new drug that targets the A1 domain of activated von Willebrand factor that attaches to GP Ib is potentially another way of solving the thrombosis puzzle with the promise that intracerebral hemorrhage would be limited.
Anti-platelet drugs are useful in preventing unwanted clots, but the complexities of platelet activation and clot formation are challenging.
Platelets can be activated by a variety of agents, including natural biomolecules, foreign materials, and drugs.
The original anti-platelet drug, aspirin, inhibits cyclooxegenase, interfering with a crucial step in the biochemical cascade.
Aspirin is cost-effective but limited in its application.
Newer drugs, ticlopidine and clopidogrel, act on the activation pathway at different points, so they can supplement aspirin.
Other potential sites for antibody intervention are extracellular matrix and endothelial surface components.
As new drugs are developed it becomes more imperative to find assays of platelet function that are sensitive and cost-effective.
Fatigue is a common complaint after a stroke, and contributes to the large national burden of caring for stroke victims.
Nevertheless, causes and cures for post-stroke fatigue are generally under-appreciated.
Stroke can occasionally manifest with non-lateralizing findings such as somnolence and stuttering.
Retinal vascular examination using direct ophthalmoscopy can be used to determine the extent of hypertensive vascular changes.
Traumatic intracranial aneurysms are rare conditions that can be a result of non-penetrating head trauma.
The leptomeningeal collaterals are a subsidiary network of vascular channels that act as anastomotic channels in conditions where cerebral blood flow is pathologically altered.
These secondary collateral pathways may be utilized when collateral flow through the circle of Willis is inadequate.
The collateral perfusion may become insufficient in certain physiological circumstances due to failed vasodilatory reserve and intracranial steal phenomenon, so-called 'Reversed-Robinhood syndrome'.
Preemptive embolization of both internal maxillary arteries along with the ipsilateral facial artery could provide maximal protection against recurrent epistaxis.
Assessment of individual risk is an important part of the primary prevention of coronary disease and stroke.
The accuracy by which individuals perceive their risk is unclear.
Some alexithymic features are similar to negative symptoms of schizophrenia, while somatosensory amplification has been defined as an abnormal perceptual style that could be related to hallucinations and positive schizophrenic symptoms.
Antipsychotic drug discontinuation is a key risk factor in psychotic relapses.
The attitude toward treatment during the acute phase of a first episode of psychosis has been proposed as one of the main determinants of treatment discontinuation.
However, the relationship between attitude toward antipsychotic medication and treatment discontinuation in the adolescent population has not been properly assessed.
This phenomenon of discharges against medical advice is an undesirable but relatively common occurrence worldwide.
Professional liability and harmful effect of this practice to individual health are of concern.
Axillary lymph node dissection is an established procedure in breast cancer staging.
However, it is associated with unpleasant side effects.
A promising alternative to assess axillary lymph node status in early breast cancer patients is Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy (SLNB).
Isosulfan blue has traditionally been the dye used to identify the Sentinel Lymph Node (SLN).
MATERIALS #ENTITYSTARTX00026;
The problem was largely unexplored in an apex medical institute in Goa.
Parathyroid glands are endocrine glands that regulate calcium metabolism.
Usually four in number, they lie mostly on the posterior aspect of thyroid glands.
Primary hyper-parathyroidism (PHPT) refers to a condition wherein they secrete an excess of parathyroid hormone leading to signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia.
Diabetes is the most common metabolic disease encountered by a surgeon.
A sound knowledge of symptomatology, clinical signs and etiology can prevent most of the disease burden and complications and thus reduce social burden.
The study tells about common foot problems among diabetes and correlates it with the awareness among people.
Decompressive Craniectomy is an effective option in the management of intractable intracranial hypertension.
Abdominal scar endometriosis is an uncommon pathology.
It can occur in any abdominal scar, most often after a surgical procedure on the uterus.
Acute pancreatitis is an inflammation of the pancreas caused by autodigestion of the gland by its enzymes.
It includes a broad spectrum of pancreatic disease, which varies from parenchymal edema to necrosis.
The cause of pain in these patients is unknown.
The presence of eosinophils and mast cells should be looked at skeptically which may explain the cause of pain.
The aim was to study the eosinophils, mast cells, nerves and ganglions in normal and inflamed appendices.
Massive haemobilia carries a mortality of 25% in most reports.
Although previously it was mainly due to road accidents or homicidal attempts it is now more often due to iatrogenic trauma like percutaneous liver biopsy and biliary drainage.
However the management protocol is not established and there have been few reports of this serious condition from India.
Although operations are difficult if performed early they may be lifesaving in our situation.
Treatment of oesophageal perforation remains controversial.
This study shows that native oesophagus should be preserved.
Early recognition improves survival.
Role of bypass as a palliative surgery for advanced gastric cancer remains controversial.
Endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair is a life-saving intervention.
Nevertheless, complications have a major impact.
While spontaneous resolution of idiopathic macular holes is well documented for early macular holes, spontaneous closure of full-thickness macular holes has been less frequently reported.
Interferons (IFNs) have been used medically, but ocular side effects have been associated with their use.
Optic disk pit-associated macular detachment is a challenging condition to treat.
Many surgical methods have been used to treat this condition with varying degrees of success.
Spontaneous scleral rupture in association with retinochoroidal coloboma is a rare and poorly understood event, with few reports in the literature.
Ocular toxocariasis is usually a unilateral posterior uveitis in otherwise asymptomatic children.
The report details a case of diffuse unilateral subacute neuroretinitis (DUSN) wherein a subretinal parasite was visualized and subsequently destroyed with laser photocoagulation.
The Israeli National List of Health Services (NLHS) is updated annually according to a government allocated budget.
The HMOs argue that once a new technology is reimbursed, extensive marketing efforts by industry expands demand and renders the allocated budget insufficient.
We provide a framework for a financial risk-sharing mechanism between HMOs and the industry, which may be able to balance these incentives and result in more accurate early budget-impact estimates.
All clinical trials using a control group.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any material discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Development, National Institutes of Health.
Debate still continues as to the effects of preoperative biliary stents on postoperative complications after pancreaticoduodenectomy.
Some studies have documented increased wound infection rates, while others have not.
The importance of this issue rests on whether these postoperative complications are detrimental enough to not recommend preoperative chemoradiation in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Understanding the patient safety literature has been compromised by the inconsistent use of language.
Lesions involving C2 are unique as it is challenging to approach these lesions.
The transoral approach to C2 lesions has been extensively used by surgeons and increasingly used by interventional radiologists for vertebroplasty as it is safer and less demanding than other approaches like anterolateral and posterolateral (transpedicular).
However, using this approach for image-guided biopsies is little described in literature with a few cases described so far being under fluoroscopic guidance.
We describe a series of 5 procedures using transoral approach - 4 biopsies (and one vertebroplasty that was published earlier) on C2 lesions under CT guidance.
To our knowledge, our series is the first one where the transoral biopsies were performed using Computed Tomography (CT) guidance.
Angiostatin, an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor, is a fragment of plasminogen.
We had previously demonstrated that innate immune cells are key targets of angiostatin, however the pathway involved in this immune-related angiogenesis inhibition was not known.
Here we present evidence that IL-12, a principal TH1 cytokine with potent anti-angiogenic activity, is the mediator of angiostatin's activity.
Same-day bidirectional endoscopy (BDE) is commonly used in clinical practice.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this paper.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have to proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The French National Program for Clinical Research.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health.
The growing importance of clinical research in Germany requires physicians who are adequately trained to conduct clinical trials.
The course was evaluated by the participants.
PARTICIPANTS AND PROGRAMME: Participants included 1st-year residents as well as specialists mostly from surgical departments; many already possessed significant experience with clinical trials.
In our course, special emphasis was put on the practical aspects of conducting clinical trials.
Knowledge about baseline potency is highly important in men undergoing treatment for prostate cancer (PCa) as it might influence judgments about impact of treatment and thereby treatment decisions.
The Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research.
National Institute on Aging, American Medical Group Association, and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
Flight Attendants' Medical Research Institute and the Swanson Family Fund.
The Framingham Heart Study and Framingham Offspring Study are conducted and supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
Pfizer Global Research and Development.
Histologic biopsy of the liver is often essential for diagnosing hepatic parenchymal disease.
Tissue acquisition is traditionally obtained by a surgical, transvascular, or percutaneous route.
The 2 main types of colon polyps are adenomas and hyperplastic.
Pit patterns on the surface of polyps have been described by using magnification chromoendoscopy, which can help differentiate between polyp types.
Narrow band imaging (NBI) is a novel technology that enhances the visualization of surface mucosal and vascular patterns on the polyp surface.
Colonoscopy with spectral estimation technology and magnifying zoom imaging allows the characterization of the fine superficial capillary pattern of normal mucosa and of colorectal lesions.
The endoscopic distinction of the capillary pattern of colorectal lesions might contribute to the differential diagnosis among normal, hyperplastic, and neoplastic lesions.
Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Italian Ministry of Universities and Research.
Hypertension is closely associated with erectile dysfunction (ED) as it has been observed in many experimental models of hypertension.
Additionally, epidemiological studies show that approximately a third of hypertensive patients have ED.
The opiorphins are a newly characterized class of peptides that act as potent endogenous neutral endopeptidase (NEP) inhibitors.
Recent reports have suggested that they play an important role in erectile physiology.
Priapism is defined as abnormal prolonged penile erection lasting at least for 4 hours occurring without sexual interest.
Forty percent of sickle cell disease (SCD) patients display priapism.
The disorder is dangerous and urgent given its association with ischemia-mediated erectile tissue damage and subsequent erectile dysfunction.
Adenosine is a signaling nucleoside that elicits many pathophysiological effects by engaging membrane receptors.
Recent evidence shows that adenosine may play an important role in priapism via adenosine receptor.
Angiotensin II (Ang II) is the primary effector of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS).
Ang II exerts its diverse physiologic actions via angiotensin type 1 and type 2 receptors.
Recent evidence shows that tissue RAS exists in the penis, therefore indicating a significant role for Ang II in erectile function.
Adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) are a somatic stem cell population contained in fat tissue that possess the ability for self-renewal, differentiation into one or more phenotypes, and functional regeneration of damaged tissue, which may benefit the recovery of erectile function by using a stem cell-based therapy.
Surgical therapies for prostate cancer and other pelvic malignancies often result in neuronal damage and debilitating loss of sexual function due to cavernous nerve (CN) trauma.
Advances in the neurobiology of growth factors have heightened clinical interest in the development of protective and regenerative neuromodulatory strategies targeting CN recovery following injury.
Recent evidence indicates that blockade of the angiotensin type I receptor (AT1) may reverse ED from various diseases.
The changing outcomes for young cystic fibrosis (CF) patients means that reproductive health issues have become an integral part of CF management.
Janssen-Cilag.
National Institute on Aging.
None.
Allograft bone is commonly used in various spinal surgeries.
The large amount of recalled allograft tissue, particularly in recent years, has increased concerns regarding the safety of allograft bone for spinal surgery.
An analysis of allograft recall and its safety in spinal surgery has not been reported previously.
Intensive care units (ICUs) are potential high-risk areas for transmission of viruses causing febrile respiratory illness, such as influenza.
Healthcare-associated influenza is prevented through healthcare worker (HCW) vaccination and effective use of U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended infection control practices, including use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
Although effective PPE use may significantly reduce healthcare-associated influenza transmission, PPE adherence among ICU HCWs for preventing nosocomial influenza infection has not been evaluated.
Sexual dysfunction (SD) and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) are highly prevalent in men and increase with age.
Previous studies have shown that LUTS and SD are highly associated in men, but most have not distinguished between voiding and storage LUTS.
Aims.
This is considered high enough to warrant the attention of scientist for critical studies and analysis.
The high ED prevalence is associated with etiologies such as psychosexual factors, chronic medical conditions, and some lifestyles.
It also leads to broken homes and marriages, psychological, social, and physical morbidity.
Adipose tissue-derived stem cells (ADSC) could potentially restore endothelial function in vasculogenic erectile dysfunction (ED).
The mechanism for ADSC endothelial differentiation remained unidentified.
Diagnosis and treatment of female sexual dysfunction (FSD) are currently based on subjective female reports and physical examination.
The GenitoSensory Analyzer (GSA) is a quantitative sensory testing tool designed to quantify vibratory and thermal sensation in the vagina and clitoris in a reproducible manner, and may therefore contribute to the diagnosis and management of FSD.
AstraZeneca Research and Development.
National Cancer Institute.
Cancer Institute of New Jersey and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
National Cancer Institute and Attorney General Consumer and Prescriber Education Program.
The Commonwealth Fund.
Roche.
National Institutes of Health.
Endoscopic therapy of walled-off pancreatic necrosis (WOPN) via direct intracavitary debridement is described.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed on this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
None.
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
The undertreatment of pain in older adults who reside in long-term care (LTC) facilities has been well documented, leading to clinical guideline development and professional educational programs designed to foster better pain assessment and management in this population.
Despite these efforts, little improvement has occurred, and we postulate that focused attention to public policy and cost implications of systemic change is required to create positive pain-related outcomes.
Several literature reviews have addressed the reliability of spinal and sacroiliac (SI) motion palpation (MP), finding that, in general, interexaminer reliability is slight and intraexaminer reliability is moderate.
Obesity is linked to increased left ventricular mass, an independent predictor of mortality.
Areas in which there was more controversy centred on the evaluation of goal achievement and the benefits of ambitious rather than achievable goals.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
Programme Hospitalier de Recherche Clinique National.
The European Union.
Early ERCP was reported to result in recovery from acute gallstone pancreatitis.
To date, several RCTs comparing it to conservative treatment have yielded different results.
EUS-FNA is increasingly being used in operable pancreatic carcinoma cases identified by CT.
QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS: A qualitative study will be conducted to explore the views and experiences of health care professionals and NHS managers concerning the interventions, and investigate possible reasons why the interventions prove effective, or conversely prove ineffective.
Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR).
However, cervical spine injuries necessitate delicate and precise management, often involving the combined efforts of a variety of health care providers.
Women tend to land in greater knee valgus with higher abduction loads than men.
Because knee abduction loads increase ACL strain, the inability to minimize these loads may lead to ACL failure.
Employment opportunities for athletic trainers (ATs) in the high school setting have increased greatly in the past few years and will most likely continue to increase.
Understanding what attracts individuals to become ATs and work in the high school setting is a complex process.
Nonradiographic tests to identify fractures rely on a patient's report of increased pain at the site of injury.
A painless technique using a tuning fork and stethoscope to detect fractures has undergone limited review in the athletic training literature.
A discrepancy in anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury rates exists between men and women.
Researchers anecdotally assume that men and women tend to display different normative values for certain lower extremity alignments, but published information about these values is limited.
Certified athletic trainers (ATs) are often the first health care providers to treat injured athletes.
However, few researchers have studied ATs' beliefs concerning working with Special Olympics athletes.
Many models have been employed to replicate skeletal muscle injury associated with trauma; however, most are restricted to 1 level of severity.
For some time, educators have advised clinical instructors (CIs) to capture the elusive teachable moment in clinical education.
However, a universal definition of a teachable moment does not exist.
Underconditioned patellar stabilizing muscles could be a predisposing factor for patellar instability.
Anterior instability and impingement are common in overhead athletes and have been associated with decreases in internal rotation (IR) and increases in external rotation (ER) motion.
However, the chronology and the effect of different female sports on these conditions have yet to be determined.
The technique of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) was introduced to be able to obtain en bloc specimens of large early GI neoplasms.
EUS is an accurate imaging modality for delineating gallbladder (GB) structures; however, its clinical use in differentiating neoplastic GB polyps from nonneoplastic polyps is limited.
Thus, we sought to characterize neoplastic GB polyps by analyzing unique EUS features.
Our analysis revealed variably shaped, relatively hypoechoic portions in the core of polyps compared with general background echogenicity.
Iatrogenic intestinal tract perforation and anastomotic disunion traditionally required surgical treatment.
Complete anastomotic break was considered until now as an absolute contraindication for endoscopic management.
Available levels of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors containing the beta(2) subunit (beta(2)*-nAChR) are higher in recently abstinent tobacco smokers compared with participants who never smoked.
Variations in beta(2)*-nAChR availability during the course of abstinence may be related to the urge to smoke, the extent of nicotine withdrawal, and successful abstinence.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in the article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The United Kingdom's National Health Service workforce is ageing, and the specific needs of this sector of its workforce need to be addressed.
Nursing and midwifery shortage is a worldwide issue, and with increasing demands for care the retention of older nurses and midwives is crucial.
A single-armed, prospective, multicenter study evaluated the redesigned American Medical Systems (AMS) 700 Momentary Squeeze (MS) pump inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP) with enhanced features for ease of implantation and patient manipulation.
The device incorporates design changes to all components: pump, cylinders, rear-tip extenders, and reservoir.
Health professionals should pay more attention to the sexual concerns of pregnant women.
In Australia, four formal F-111 fuel tank deseal/reseal (DSRS) repair programs were implemented over more than two decades, each involving different processes and using a range of hazardous substances.
However, ESD is technically difficult, hazardous, and time consuming.
New technologies may overcome these drawbacks.
Most extrahepatic bile-duct carcinomas are usually diagnosed when they are already in an advanced stage, which is the main reason for the poor prognosis of this tumor.
Autofluorescence imaging is, however, associated with a 40% to 81% false-positive rate.
In middle-aged men, the associations between long-term depressive symptoms and circulating testosterone levels are poorly known, although it is known that testosterone levels decrease with age.
Recurrent ischemic priapism still remains a serious and difficult to treat complication of certain hematological disorders.
The underlying mechanism is largely unknown, although some clinical studies suggest that the arterial supply to the corpora cavernosa is responsible.
Two animal experimental studies reported on the effects of a single fraction of prostate irradiation on the penile structures.
However, irradiation in multiple fractions is more representative of the actual clinical treatment.
Quality improvement in high-acuity surgery increasingly relies on clinical pathways to streamline patient care and to maximize cost-efficiency.
Yet, it remains unclear whether immediate pre-operative hospitalization (non-elective resection) influences operative performance and to what extent it alters the post-operative course.
The aim of the current study was to analyse AQP 9 expression and localization in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and non-tumourigenic liver (NTL) tissue from patients undergoing hepatic resection.
Recurrent pyogenic cholangitis (RPC) is still a common disease in East Asia.
The present study reviews the operative results for this disease in a single centre.
Blunt (non-anatomical) debridement of necrotic tissue at laparotomy is the standard method of treatment of infected post-inflammatory pancreatic necrosis.
Recognition that laparotomy may add to morbidity by increasing postoperative organ dysfunction has led to the development of alternative, minimally invasive methods for debridement.
This study reports the status of minimally invasive necrosectomy by different approaches.
However, after NC(+), structural alterations have been reported with the risk of post-operative hepatic failure.
We undertook to determine if NC(+) toxicity limits future remnant liver (FRL) hypertrophy after PVE.
Liver transplantation involves a period of ischemia and reperfusion to the graft which leads to primary non-function and dysfunction of the liver in 5-10% of cases.
Remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) has been shown to reduce ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) injury to the liver and increase hepatic blood flow.
We hypothesized that RIPC may directly modulate hepatic microcirculation and have investigated this using intravital microscopy.
Atrophy-hypertrophy complex (AHC) of the liver rarely complicates post-cholecystectomy benign biliary strictures (BBS).
When laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) is performed successfully, recovery is faster than after open cholecystectomy.
However, LC results in higher incidences of biliary, bowel and vascular injury.
Monopolar radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is a well accepted modality for local control of hepatic tumours, but its effectiveness is challenged by prolonged ablation time, an inconsistent ablation zone and susceptibility to energy loss from convective heat loss from adjacent high-velocity blood flows ('heat sinks').
Bipolar RFA employs a dual parallel electrode array; the energy wave travels unidirectionally between and not around electrodes.
This 'line-of-sight' delivery streams energy between two fixed points and concentrates energy delivery to the area between the probes.
Bipolar RFA is postulated to yield reduced ablation time and to reduce or eliminate convective heat loss from adjacent high-velocity blood flows.
The current study evaluated the feasibility, time and safety of this novel FDA-approved bipolar RFA technology using a laparoscopic approach in human liver tumours.
At present, various devices are available for pre-coagulation transection (PCT) of hepatic parenchyma with the intent of minimizing procedure-associated postoperative haemorrhage and bile leak.
This report presents the evaluation of a novel bipolar radiofrequency (RF) energy device for PCT used for laparoscopic hepatic resection.
It is also uncommon for renal cell carcinoma (RCC) to metastasize to the pancreas (1-3% of cases) and, when it does, it typically occurs substantially after index nephrectomy.
It is not known whether all pancreatic metastases need be resected because today's chemo- and biological therapies are increasingly effective in controlling advanced disease.
Pancreatic anastomotic leak is one of the most serious complications following pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD).
Aberrant arterial anatomy is a common finding during foregut surgery.
Anomalies to the right hepatic lobe are especially relevant during pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) and their recognition serves to protect the blood supply to the liver and bile ducts.
We report our experience with aberrant right hepatic arterial anatomy (ARHAA) found during PD.
This study aimed to document the frequency and duration of individual organ dysfunction in all fatalities caused by AP in a large, population-based cohort.
The use of precut sphincterotomy during endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) facilitates selective bile duct access in difficult procedures.
Several techniques for precut sphincterotomy have been described in the literature.
This paper reports our experience with a non-needle-knife technique for precut sphincterotomy, namely, the mucosal bridge technique.
Globalization and intercontinental migration have not just changed the socioeconomic status of regions, but have also altered disease dynamics across the globe.
Hepatolithiasis, although still rare, is becoming increasingly evident in the West because of immigration from the Asia-Pacific region, where the disease prevails in endemic proportions.
Such rare but emerging diseases pose a therapeutic challenge to doctors.
A pancreatic fistula (PF) is the most common complication after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD), and its reported incidence varies from 2% to 28%.
The aim of the present study was to analyse the treatment of a complicated PF comparing the surgical approach with conservative techniques.
Post-operative pancreatic fistula (POPF) is one of the most fearful complications which may occur after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD).
The methods used to predict POPF pre-operatively have not been studied in great detail.
Pancreatitis is the most common and serious complication to occur after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP).
It is often associated with additional diagnostic modalities and/or treatment of obstructive jaundice.
The aim of this study was to determine the risk of post-ERCP pancreatitis associated with pancreaticobiliary examination and endoscopic biliary drainage (EBD).
Despite the increasing use of laparoscopic techniques, the optimal surgical approach for cystic liver disease has not been well defined.
This study aims to determine the optimum operative approach for these patients.
There is wide debate among transplant centres regarding the indications for liver transplantation (LT) in malignancy.
We report a single-centre experience with simultaneous LT and total pancreatectomy or pancreaticoduodenectomy.
Utilizing laparoscopy for major surgeries such as hepatectomy is a relatively new concept.
Initially, benign pathologies dominated indications for resection.
Our experience in an Australian setting with primarily malignant diagnoses is described.
Blood loss during hepatic transection remains a significant risk factor for morbidity and mortality associated with liver surgery.
Various electrosurgical devices have been engineered to reduce blood loss.
The Gyrus open forceps is a bipolar cautery device which has recently been introduced into hepatic surgery.
Liver transplantation and resection surgery involve a period of ischaemia and reperfusion to the liver which initiates an inflammatory cascade resulting in liver and remote organ injury.
Bucillamine is a low-molecular-weight thiol antioxidant that is capable of rapidly entering cells.
Acute lung injury (ALI) and its more severe form, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), are devastating disorders of overwhelming pulmonary inflammation and hypoxemia, resulting in high morbidity and mortality.
Though the current literature suggests favoring outpatient treatment, whether outpatient or inpatient treatment is more efficient cannot be answered generally.
The potential cancer risks associated with ionizing radiation exposure have been derived from cohort studies of Japanese atomic bomb survivors who had experienced acute, high-level exposure.
Since such extrapolations are subject to uncertainty, direct information is needed on the risk associated with chronic low-dose occupational exposure to ionizing radiation.
Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Ontario Women's Health Council.
Heart and Stroke Foundation of Ontario.
Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development, ZonMw, and Netherlands Asthma Foundation.
Women are increasingly entering the surgical profession.
The effect of the GI endoscopy nurse experience on colonoscopy outcomes is unknown.
Aberrant crypt foci (ACF) have emerged as a putative precursor to colorectal adenoma, with potential use as a biomarker of colorectal cancer.
Staffing and education have well-documented associations with patient outcomes, but evidence on the effect of care environments on outcomes has been more limited.
In this randomized and prospective study, we compared the analgesic effects of lornoxicam and tramadol in patients after inguinal hernia repair.
Consejera de Salud, Junta de Andaluca, Spain.
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation.
Laparoscopic retroperitoneal partial nephrectomy in children remains a complex technique with limited diffusion among the paediatric surgical community.
Women who have undergone hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy experience a loss of ovarian hormones.
Hair is a distinguishing feature of mammals, though the persistence of visible head, axillary, and pubic hair remains anthropologically unclear.
The aim of the article is to examine the trends in pubic hair removal and its impact on health and sexuality.
Violence manifests itself in such multifarious ways as sexual, physical, and psychological abuse.
What has hitherto eluded the medical community, however, is whether sexual and nonsexual abuse share the same predictors.
The Sexual Confidence Scale (SCS) and the Sexual Relationship Scale (SRS) are two new measures designed for use by men and women across sexual dysfunction groups.
The SCS assesses how confident an individual feels as a sexual partner, while the SRS assesses feelings that an individual has about their sexual relationship with their partner.
Two adult horses developed increases in IAP secondary to large-volume abdominal effusion.
A 9-year-old Quarter Horse cross gelding was presented for evaluation of urinary and neurologic signs.
Abdominal ultrasonographic examination showed a hepatic abscess along with abdominal effusion.
A 4-year-old Quarter Horse gelding was presented for evaluation of castration complications.
A castration site infection extended into surrounding tissues, resulting in peritonitis, abdominal effusion, and severe cellulitis of the limbs.
IPMNs of the main pancreatic duct cause symptoms and lead to pancreatitis.
Side-branch (SB) IPMNs are thought to cause symptoms less frequently, and their association with pancreatitis is not well defined.
Doctors of Chiropractic frequently give therapeutic exercise and nutritional advice to patients.
Skeletal muscle's role in health and disease is underappreciated.
Creating synergy between protein consumption and exercise promotes protein synthesis and may impact patient outcomes.
Our surgery residency includes an annual Resident Research Day (RRD) for presentation of resident research.
We hypothesized that RRD stimulates the development of novel research.
We evaluated this among our residents and at other institutions.
California Healthcare Foundation.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this manuscript.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Its ideal management remains unclear.
Personal digital assistant (PDA)-based continuing medical education (CME) activities have become widely available.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is the first inflammatory autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system for which a specific antigenic target has been identified; the marker autoantibody NMO-IgG specifically recognizes the astrocytic water channel aquaporin 4.
Current evidence strongly suggests that NMO-IgG may be pathogenic.
Since disability accrues incrementally related to attacks, attack prevention with immunosuppressive therapy is the mainstay of preventing disability.
German Ministry of Education and Research.
Scholars have postulated that cervical degeneration can predispose the upper cervical spine to injury after minor trauma.
Subchondral cysts have previously been recognized as potentiators of fracture in the hip and knee but no cases of cervical degenerative cysts contributing to fracture have been reported.
Psychiatric comorbidity affects the impact, the prognosis and the management of depression.
NCT00816036.
Teaching the content of clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) is important to both clinical care and graduate medical education.
Confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) allows in vivo visualization of mucosal histology during endoscopy.
Microsatellite instability (MSI) and lymphocytic infiltrate (LI) in colon cancer are associated with less aggressive biological characteristics.
These patients may be candidates for more aggressive adjuvant therapy.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Australian National Health and Medical Research Council.
The Commonwealth Fund.
Hypoxia is a major cause of pulmonary hypertension in respiratory disease and at high altitude.
Recent work has established that the effect of hypoxia on pulmonary arterial pressure may depend on iron status, possibly acting through the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor, but the pathophysiological and clinical importance of this interaction is unknown.
Seat pressure during cycling and its relationship to urological disorders have been discussed extensively in recently published literature.
The effects of exercise configuration on seat pressure, however, still have not been fully investigated.
.
Failure to recover erectile function after radical prostatectomy (RP) may result from venous leak as a sequela of neuropraxia-induced erectile tissue damage.
Venous leak portends a poor prognosis for erections recovery as well as phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor (PDE5i) response.
Therefore, an early diagnosis and prognostic assessment is important for optimal therapeutic intervention.
Suspected alpha lipoic acid (ALA) toxicity was diagnosed based on clinical history and compatible laboratory findings in 2 dogs.
During the course of hospitalization, hypoglycemia persisted and evidence of acute hepatic insult developed.
With aggressive supportive care (including IV fluids with dextrose supplementation, hepatoprotective medications, and a plasma transfusion), he made a full recovery.
Pancreatic endocrine tumors (PETs) differ in clinical behavior and prognosis.
Determination of malignant potential through specimens obtained by EUS-FNA can help in the management of these patients.
Left atrial function has never been used to prognosticate outcome in septic patients.
Attainment of hemodynamic parameters to within a normal range may leave patients in compensatory shock.
In such patients, serial blood lactate evaluation can be useful in predicting shock.
There is very limited data available in elderly subjects regarding the markers for sepsis.
Development of good markers will help in overall management and prediction of sepsis.
Corticosteroid insufficiency in acute illness can be difficult to discern clinically.
Occult adrenal insufficiency (i.e., Deltamax &lt; or =9 microg/dL) after corticotropin may be associated with a high mortality rate.
There has been no Indian study that has examined the inter-rater reliability (IRR) of video-recorded interviews of the 21-item Ham-D.
Abnormal body sensations are reported frequently by schizophrenic patients.
Cenesthesias are infrequently recognized and diagnosis of cenesthopathic schizophrenia is rarely made.
There are very few studies regarding the same.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is the most serious and potentially fatal adverse effect of neuroleptic medications.
Although it occurs most frequently with conventional antipsychotic medicines, it may occur with newer antipsychotic medicines also.
We evaluated the utility of botulinum toxin in functional female bladder outlet obstruction.
The tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure is based on the integral theory that the midurethra has an important role in the continence mechanism.
Transobturator vaginal tape (TOT) is the same in concept as TVT but it differs from TVT in that, rather than passing through the retropubic space, sling materials are drawn through the obturator foramina.
We prospectively compared TVT with TOT with respect to operation-related morbidity and surgical outcomes at a minimum follow up of 12 months.
Flexible ureterorenoscopies continue to assume an increasing role in the armamentarium of the endourologist.
The simultaneous repair of UDT and hypospadias is rarely done.
Herein, we present a novel technique to use processes vaginalis as a vascular cover for neourethra in a hypospadias patient with UDT.
We have done urethroplasty and orchiopexy simultaneously.
This is the first report concerning the use of processes vaginalis to reinforce the urethra.
Wellcome Trust.
National Cancer Institute, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
Population ageing affects most undeveloped, developing and developed countries.
Less than a quarter of older people undertake a level of physical activity worldwide that is sufficient to lead to health benefits.
Understanding older people's confidence regarding engaging in exercise helps to structure physical activity interventions that motivate them to initiate and adhere to regular exercise.
The reliability and validity of a Chinese version of the SEE for older adults has not been tested.
Both the increased plasma to red blood cells (RBC) and platelets to RBC ratios, and the "protocolization" of product delivery seem to be critical components of the reduction in mortality.
The purpose of this study was to identify the incidence and impact of MT protocol noncompliance and to intervene in provider-related events associated with poor compliance and outcomes.
National Cancer Institute.
Admixture of vitamin A with surfactant as a lipophilic vehicle might be a less invasive modality.
Incretin glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is a hormone released from cells in the gastrointestinal tract (GI), leading to glucose-dependent insulin release from the pancreas.
It also suppresses postprandial hyperglycemia, glucagon secretion and slows gastric emptying.
Tongue-coating is a moss-like deposit which forms over the tongue surface, and includes micro-organisms, food residues, and abrasive epithelia.
It is considered that motor function of the tongue and lips and saliva secretion decrease in the aged and have some effect on the accumulation of tongue-coating.
One of the most ubiquitous tasks facing individuals is categorization.
Sleep deprivation is known to affect rule-based categorization in the classic Wisconsin Card Sorting Task, but, to date, information-integration categorization has not been examined.
There is increasing evidence that very preterm birth and VLBW have a considerable effect on motor development, although findings are inconsistent.
The Commonwealth Fund.
Clinical and Translational Science Center at Weill Cornell Medical College.
In the eye, melatonin plays a role in promoting light sensitivity at night and modulating many aspects of circadian retinal physiology.
It is also an inhibitor of retinal dopamine, which is a promoter of day vision through the cone system.
Consequently, it is possible that oral melatonin (an inhibitor of retinal dopamine) taken to alleviate circadian disorders may affect cone functioning.
Our aim was to assess the impact of melatonin on the cone response of the human retina using electroretinography (ERG).
Gastrotomy closure remains the major limiting factor for human translation of transgastric surgery; the over-the-scope clip (OTSC) system was proposed as a possibility for this purpose.
Transgastric access is good for a pelvic approach, making varicocelectomy a possible indication for natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES).
Differential diagnosis of solid pancreatic masses remains a challenge.
EUS elastography, by analyzing tissue stiffness of the mass, may be of help in this setting.
On 28(th) June, 2006, 55 cases of the gastroenteritis were reported among the hostellers of the Tibetan Transit School, Dharamshala.
We investigated the outbreak to identify the source, propose control and preventive measures.
Many women do not utilize institutional care in spite of physical accessibility.
Home-based care by traditional birth attendants (TBA) is hazardous.
Inappropriate early neonatal feeding practices are common.
Many barriers to perinatal care can be overcome by social mobilization and capacity building at the community level.
Regular outbreaks of Measles are reported in India, of which only a few are investigated.
Corneal diseases constitute a significant cause of visual impairment and blindness in the developing world.
Well-informed nursing students could be expected to influence eye donation rates.
We aimed to determine the prevalence, pattern, and treatment seeking behaviors (TSB) of MSD in Southwest, Nigeria.
For sustainable elimination of iodine deficiency disorders (IDD), it is necessary to consume adequately iodized salt on a regular basis and optimal iodine nutrition can be achieved through universal salt iodization.
There is a need to assess the health care systems regarding the consumer satisfaction as often as possible.
Aquaporin 1 (AQP1) is a water channel expressed in many epithelial tissues and endothelium, including the proximal nephron of the kidney.
Urinary prostate cancer gene 3 (PCA3) represents a promising novel marker of prostate cancer detection.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and National Institute on Drug Abuse.
National Institutes of Health and Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
Stress fractures are troublesome injuries.
Sites of occurrence are activity-related and specific anatomical sites are endemic to certain sports.
Little is known about stress fracture patterns in golf.
The menisci transmit weight bearing forces and increase stability of the knee.
The menisci also facilitate nutrition, provide lubrication and shock absorption for the articular cartilage and promote knee proprioception.
The combinations of torsional and axial loading appear to be the cause of most meniscal injuries.
Diagnosis of acute knee injuries has long been a topic for discussion throughout the orthopedic literature.
Many clinical tests and diagnostic studies have been developed to increase the clinician's ability to accurately diagnose these types of disorders of the knee.
District Datia has been known to be endemic for filariasis.
The study was conducted to analyze previous six-year prevalence data of HIV infection in the Northwest region of India and predict future trends for a couple of years.
Obesity has become a major chronic disorder affecting the larger population more than any other disease in the world.
The Voluntary Counseling and Testing Centre (VCTC) services have begun as a cost-effective intervention in reversing this epidemic.
Early marriage and confinement are contributing factors to high maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity.
Breastfeeding practices play an important role in reducing child mortality and morbidity.
This study was aimed to describe the breastfeeding practices prevalent in rural areas.
Vitiligo affects one to two percent of the word population.
Its pathogenesis has not been clarified yet.
Multiple mechanisms such as autoimmune, neuronal, endocrine and oxidative stress resulting from unbalanced antioxidant defense system have been proposed.
Alopecia areata (AA) is an immune-mediated form of hair loss that occurs in all ethnic groups, ages, and both sexes.
Helicobacter pylori has been associated with many extra-digestive dermatological conditions.
The causal relation between alopecia areata and Helicobacter pylori is discussed in this study.
Dermatofibromas are common benign tumors in women, and breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women.
The aim of this study is to determine if there is any relationship between the two conditions.
Hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD) is caused mostly by Coxsackievirus A16 (CA16) and enterovirus 71 (EV71).
Epidemic of HFMD has occurred in India only once in Kerala in 2003.
We report here a recent outbreak of HFMD in three districts of West Bengal, India.
Melasma is a symmetric progressive hyperpigmentation of the facial skin that occurs in all races but has a predilection for darker skin phenotypes.
Depigmenting agents, laser and chemical peeling as classic Jessner's solution, modified Jessner's solution and trichloroacetic acid have been used alone and in combination in the treatment of melasma.
Hirsutism refers to the presence of terminal hairs at the body sites under androgenic control.
Various factors, including genetic makeup and hormonal status, influence the rate and pattern of hair growth at these sites.
In the early 1960s, Eugene Garfield and Irving Sher created the journal impact factor to help select journals for the Science Citation Index (SCI).
The use of the term "impact factor" has gradually evolved, especially in Europe, to include both journal and author impact.
This ambiguity often causes problems.
It is one thing to use impact factors to compare journals and quite another to use them to compare authors.
Journal impact factors generally involve relatively large populations of articles and citations.
Studies from Tamil Nadu, South India, have reported the world's highest suicide rates.
As per official reports, Kerala, another South Indian state has the highest suicide rate among the major states in India.
With the advent of newer antipsychotic drugs, side effects such as sexual dysfunction have been a major contributor toward treatment compliance.
There are only a few studies that have compared different atypical antipsychotic agents regarding sexual dysfunction.
Dementia is one of the most disabling disorders afflicting the elderly, with a staggering emotional and economic impact.
Antidementia agents have been used for delaying cognitive decline.
Antipsychotics are commonly prescribed for behavioral symptoms associated with dementia.
Stress and depression shows possible links to neuronal death in hippocampus.
Subiculum plays a prominent role in limbic stress integration and direct effect of corticosteroids on subicular neurons needs to be defined to assess its subsequent impact on hippocampal plasticity.
Most psychiatric illnesses have a chronic relapsing course.
The current emphasis in mental health service is on brief hospitalization and providing community-based services.
The management of psychiatric disorders should ideally be carried out by a multidisciplinary team that consists of mental health professionals from different disciplines.
High-risk patients, such as those institutionalized, are particularly vulnerable to adverse drug events and possibly even more so during the course of active viral infection.
As clinicians pursue antiviral treatment, it is important to know the potential risks of prescribing concurrent medication regimens.
A repeated measures ANOVA was used to analyze the data.
The purpose of the present study is to compare finite size pencil beam (fsPB) and Monte Carlo (MC) based optimization of lung intensity-modulated stereotactic radiotherapy (lung IMSRT).
A minority of HIV-1 infected individuals develop broad cross-neutralizing (BCN) plasma antibodies that are capable of neutralizing a spectrum of virus variants belonging to different HIV-1 clades.
This study also aimed to use the selected mimotopes as tools to unravel the evolution of the antibody landscape and the viral envelope escape which may provide us with new insights for vaccine design.
In addition, primary retroperitoneal leiomyomas are very rare clinical conditions.
Automatic, uncontrolled, and unaware sexual behaviors during sleep have occasionally been described.
The clinical and polysomnographic features of nocturnal sexual behavior allow it to be considered a distinct parasomnia named "sexsomnia".
Recently, abnormal sexual behaviors during sleep have been evaluated in the forensic medical context because violent behaviors can be associated with this parasomnia.
With the advent of genetically modified mice, it seems particularly advantageous to develop a mouse model of diabetic erectile dysfunction.
Complaints of premature ejaculation (PE) and its repercussions are culture-dependent.
Lymphatic invasion is necessary for regional lymph node (RLN) metastasis in breast cancer (BC), while systemic metastasis requires blood vessel (BV) invasion.
The site of BV invasion could be at the primary BC site or through lymphovascular anastomoses.
The vague pathologic term "lymphovascular invasion" (LVI) encourages the belief that peri/intratumoral BV invasion may be common.
Erectile dysfunction is a preoccupying issue, just like motor and bladder disability, in spinal cord injured (SCI) patients.
Uncorrected refractive error is an avoidable cause of visual impairment.
Behavior pattern influences the risk of unintentional injuries.
This study was conducted to identify the pattern of household unsafe behavior in different socioeconomic strata, in Pune city, India.
Hence, this study was undertaken.
Studies have identified asthma among Indian children.
Climate change is a significant and emerging threat to public health and to meet the challenge, health systems require qualified staff.
Hypertension is a major chronic lifestyle disease.
Several non-pharmacological interventions are effective in bringing down the blood pressure (BP).
This study focuses on the effectiveness of such interventions among young adults.
In India, gypsum mining is mainly carried out in the state of Rajasthan, which contributes about 99% of the total production.
According to WHO estimates India will be the global capital of diabetes by 2025, accounting for 57.2 million diabetics.
Worsening the situation is the fact that diabetes affects the economically productive age-group (45-65 years) in developing countries.
This minireview describes the health effects of antimony exposure in the workplace and the environment.
Air pollutants of iron- and steel-making operations have historically been an environmental and health hazard.
These pollutants include gaseous substances such as sulfur oxide, nitrogen dioxide, and carbon monoxide.
line 630 and line 650, with different beam production capabilities and is capable of producing different types of beams.
Stress in nurses is an endemic problem.
It contributes to health problems in nurses and decreases their efficiency.
Documenting the causes and extent of stress in any healthcare unit is essential for successful interventions
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) originate from the incomplete combustion of organic matter and ambient air pollution by these is increasing.
Exposure to pollutants and other allergens induces chronic airway inflammation by generation of reactive oxygen species, causing oxidative stress.
Therefore, the objective of the present study was to assess association, if any, between exposure to PAH and asthma as well as oxidative stress in children.
Myths prevailing about diabetes in the society have become a major hurdle for its proper treatment and control.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is the main cause of community-acquired pneumonia in adults.
The pathophysiology of stress cardiomyopathy remains controversial.
Evidence of climate change and its impact continues to be accumulated, and it is argued that the consequences of climate change are likely to result in an increased demand on health services.
It has been claimed that climate change presents new challenges for health services and that strategies should be adopted to address these challenges.
However, current knowledge about the distribution, correlates, and major contributors of these measures in human populations is limited.
Discussion of bad news and resuscitation in terminal cancer is an important but difficult and often neglected issue in day-to-day oncology practice.
Brain metastases are a common manifestation of systemic cancer and exceed primary brain tumors in number and are a significant cause of neurologic problems.
They affect 20-40% of all cancer patients.
Aggressive management of brain metastases is effective in both symptom palliation and prolonging the life.
Radiotherapy has a major role to play in the management of brain metastases.
This paper describes a study that investigated the cultural issues of access to palliative care services for Indian migrants in Australia.
Endometrial ossification is an uncommon disease related to secondary infertility and its etiology and pathogenesis are controversial.
More than 80% of reported cases occur after pregnancy.
Penetration of the colon to the posterior uterine wall secondary to diverticulitis is unusual, with diagnostic methods not yet established.
Non-invasive imaging, such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging may help to establish a proper diagnosis, but confirmation may be reached only after surgical exploration.
The predictive ability of flap temperature monitoring has been previously questioned.
A cosmetically pleasing postoperative scar is an important aim of all aesthetic surgeries.
However, closure of the edges of wounds by means of conventional suture materials does not always meet the requirements to achieve this objective.
Q-switched Nd:YAG laser, a melanin pigment-specific laser was used to treat melanocytic nevi in Indian patients.
Male androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is a common condition.
There is limited information on its prevalence and patterns.
Videodermoscopy (VD) is a noninvasive diagnostic tool that provides useful information for the differential diagnosis of scalp disorders.
Amongst corneal diseases, microbial keratitis is a major blinding disease.
Stroke is an increasing problem in Ghana and the West African sub-region.
Natural cocoa and cocoa products are increasingly attracting the attention of many investigators and the general public because of their potential nutritional and medicinal properties and other claims.
Massage therapy (MT) is widely used and expanding rapidly, but systematic research on its mechanisms and effects has, in contrast with many other therapeutic fields, a short history.
Unwinding is a popular technique in massage therapy, but its mechanism is not well understood.
In the absence of a scientific explanation or hypothesis of the mechanism of action, it can be interpreted as "mystical."
Since the late 1980s, several taxonomies have been developed to help map and describe the interrelationships of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) modalities.
In these taxonomies, several issues are often incompletely addressed: A simple categorization process that clearly isolates a modality to a single conceptual categoryClear delineation of verticality-that is, a differentiation of scale being observed from individually applied techniques, through modalities (therapies), to whole medical systemsRecognition of CAM as part of the general field of health care
Lifestyle behaviours have significant health and economic consequences.
Primary care providers play an important role in promoting healthy behaviours.
We compared the performance of primary care models in delivering health promotion and identified practice factors associated with its delivery.
Many industrialized nations have initiated reforms in the organization and delivery of primary care.
In Ontario, Canada, salaried and capitation models have been introduced in an attempt to address the deficiencies of the traditional fee-for-service model.
The Ontario setting therefore provides an opportunity to compare these funding models within a region that is largely homogeneous with respect to other factors that influence care delivery.
We sought to compare the performance of the models across a broad array of dimensions and to understand the underlying practice factors associated with superior performance.
We report on the methodology grounding this work.
Enterobacter cloacae is responsible for 65-75% of all Enterobacter infections, bacteremia being the most common syndrome.
It is unknown whether surgery is the gold standard for therapy of thrombosed external hemorrhoids (TEH).
On average 12% of the population worldwide suffer from acute or chronic constipation.
Pathological intestine alterations, an unhealthy diet with reduced liquid intake, and little exercise are potential reasons.
Often the motility of the intestine is disturbed.
Changing nutrition habits or lifestyle is not always successful.
In such cases, laxatives containing macrogol and inulin are highly effective.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is characterized by a chronic relapsing inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract.
A worse HRQoL in these patients may result in a defensive and ineffective use of medical attention and thus higher medical costs.
Because of its chronic nature, IBD may also cause psychological problems in many patients which may also influence HRQoL and care-seeking behavior.
An important factor reducing HRQoL is disease activity.
Treatment strategies available for many years are corticosteroids, 5-aminosalicylates and immunnosuppressants, but these treatments did not show significant long-term improvement on HRQoL.
The biologics, which induce rapid and sustained remission, may improve HRQoL.
It is unknown which proctological position is most embarrassing to patients.
The use of antibiotic drugs triggers a complex interaction involving many biological, sociological, and psychological determinants.
Resistance to antibiotics is a serious worldwide problem which is increasing and has implications for morbidity, mortality, and health care both in hospitals and in the community.
Online conductivity monitoring using sodium flux as a surrogate for urea allows the repeated noninvasive measurement of Kt/V on each HD treatment.
It has been hypothesized that the frontal dysfunction may explain poor insight in schizophrenia.
Prefrontal cortex deficits have been consistently demonstrated in schizophrenia.
The orbitofrontal lobe (OFL), a critical component of the prefrontal cortex, subserves social and neuro-cognitive functions.
While these functional impairments are established in schizophrenia, the OFL volume deficits have not been well studied, especially in antipsychotic-nave patients.
As per Frith's neuro-cognitive model, inferior parietal lobule (IPL) is implicated in the pathogenesis of Schneiderian first-rank symptoms (FRS) in schizophrenia.
The specific role of IPL structural abnormalities in the pathogenesis of FRS is yet to be ascertained.
The HIV epidemic has posed major, almost insurmountable, challenges to tuberculosis control efforts across the world.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection primarily affects women during their reproductive years, and the coexistence of reproductive tract infections (RTIs) is not surprising given the fact that HIV is mainly acquired via heterosexual contact.
This study analyzes the social, economic and behavioral factors most frequently associated with adherence to Highly Active Antiretroviral Treatment (HAART) in urban India.
Infectious diseases including HIV and viral hepatitis constitute a major health issue, with high prevalence among injecting drug users (IDUs).
Papular pruritic eruptions has been associated with progressive HIV disease in adults though it is categorized in early stage.
Filariasis is a major health problem in tropical countries including India.
Fine needle aspiration cytology plays an important role in prompt recognition of disease.
Histological diagnosis of soft tissue sarcomas is a difficult job not only for diverse architecture of different variants but also for variability in picture among different parts of a single tumor.
Thus, cytodiagnosis of these tumors is one of the most challenging jobs.
Liquid based cytology (LBC) has been reported to increase the sensitivity of cervical cytology, in comparison with conventional cytology Pap smear (CPS).
Most LBC systems though require expensive automated devices.
Computed tomography (CT)-guided fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) is regarded as a rapid, safe, and accurate diagnostic tool in examining thoracic mass lesions for the last three decades.
Cervical cytology screening for carcinoma of the cervix in India is mainly opportunistic in nature and is practiced mainly in urban centres.
The effectiveness of cervical cytology screening depends on various factors.
The diagnosis of retroperitoneal lesions is one of the most difficult areas in surgical pathology.
The retroperitoneal space allows both primary and metastatic tumors to grow silently before the appearance of clinical signs and symptoms.
Fine needle aspiration cytology has shown promising role in establishing the diagnosis in this region.
Parapharyngeal tumors are rare and often pose diagnostic difficulties due to their location and plethora of presentations.
Reporting templates are increasingly common in all fields of pathology.
In this paper, we present an assessment of the impact of a thyroid fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) template on diagnostic classification and cytohistologic concordance.
Distinguishing adenocarcinoma cells from reactively proliferated mesothelial cells and macrophages is one of the greatest challenges in the cytodiagnosis of effusions.
Aberrant glycosylation of cell surface glycoconjugates is emblematic to malignancy, and lectins being an important class of probes to demonstrate these aberrations, lectin cytochemistry is of great interest to differentiate adenocarcinoma cells from reactive mesothelial cells.
The pathogenetic events in intestinal tuberculosis, which culminate in ulcer formation, perforation, and stricture, still have to be identified.
Cryptococcus neoformans is the most common fungal pathogen to infect the central nervous system, and an effective diagnostic method is therefore necessary for the early diagnosis of cryptococcal meningitis.
Acinetobacter species are gaining importance as potential pathogens in neonatal septicemia because of their frequent isolation and multidrug resistance.
The start of residency represents an "educational handoff."
Residents are evaluated using Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) core competencies.
An Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) is a potential evaluation tool to measure these competencies and provide outcome data.
The outcomes-based assessment rubric is a novel systematic instrument for documenting improvement in clinical learning.
Methods for surgical education and training have changed little over the years.
Recent calls to improve surgical efficiency and safety impose additional pressures that have an impact on surgical education and training.
Surgical education and training are poised to exploit low-cost simulation technologies to mitigate these pressures that are having an adverse impact on curricula.
To become effective, simulation needs to undergo rigorous validation studies.
BACKGROUND AND PROBLEM STATEMENT: The goals of the patient-centered medical home (PCMH) include the efficient and effective delivery of patient-centered care in the context of a continuity relationship.
In residency training programs, competing demands on faculty, residents, and office staff create considerable challenge in demonstrating these vital attributes of the PCMH to residents.
Given the emphasis on the PCMH, primary care residency programs need to strengthen the methods for teaching and modeling continuity, office efficiency, and team-based approaches to care.
End-of- rotation global evaluations can be subjective, produce inflated grades, lack interrater reliability, and offer information that lacks value.
This article outlines the generation of a unique developmental criterion-referenced assessment that applies adult learning theory and the learner, manager, teacher model, and represents an innovative application to the American Board of Internal Medicine (ABIM) 9-point scale.
Competency in practice-based learning and improvement (PBLI) and systems-based practice (SBP) empowers learners with the skills to plan, lead, and execute health care systems improvement efforts.
Experiences from several graduate medical education programs describe the implementation of PBLI and SBP curricula as challenging because of lack of adequate curricular time and faculty resources, as well as a perception that PBLI and SBP are not relevant to future careers.
A dedicated experiential rotation that requires fellow participation in a specialty-specific quality improvement project (QIP) may address some of these challenges.
Education in systems-based practice is a required component of all postgraduate medical education programs in the United States.
Training in practice management in residency programs has not been emphasized as an important component of systems-based practice.
Historically, practice management training in residency programs has been done using a fully didactic model, and residents have expressed a desire to learn this skill by becoming more directly involved in the operations and management of a practice.
The patient visit touches many aspects of the health care system, including clinic operations, insurance, quality, and finances.
CEVL is a learning and assessment tool that can provide students and educators with quantitative feedback on learning a specific surgical procedure.
Methods involved examine quantitative data of improvement in surgical skills.
Herein, we qualitatively describe the method and show how program directors (PDs) may implement this technique in their residencies.
The core competencies provide a means of defining why care was not safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable, or patient centered.
This paper outlines the goals, structure, and expected outcomes for the one-year Fellowship in Graduate Medical Education Administration program.
The skills necessary for leading a successful Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) training program require an increased level of curricular and administrative expertise.
Few faculty-development efforts adequately address the complexities of educational administration.
Chief residents play a crucial role in internal medicine residency programs in administration, academics, team building, and coordination between residents and faculty.
In the current health care environment more patient care has moved from in-hospital care to the ambulatory primary care settings; however, fewer internal medicine residents are pursuing primary care careers.
In late 2008, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) published a report recommending more restrictive limits on resident work hours to promote patient safety.
Reaction from the graduate medical education community has focused on concerns about a lack of evidence supporting the IOM's recommendations.
Data supporting a causal link between resident fatigue and medical errors that harm patients are not robust.
Two areas where data support a stronger impact on patient safety include resident supervision and transitions of care; 2) a "one size fits all" model when specialty-specific recommendations may be more appropriate.
Because these potential impacts have not been sufficiently researched, it is premature to support additional changes at this time.
In December 2008 the Institute of Medicine (IOM) released a report recommending limits on resident hours that are considerably more restrictive than the current Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education duty hour standards.
In December 2008, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) released the report of a consensus committee recommending added limits on resident duty hours.
Sleep deprivation negatively affects resident performance, education, and safety.
Concerns over these effects have prompted efforts to reduce resident hours.
This article describes the design and implementation of a scheduling system with no continuous 24-hour calls.
Aims included meeting Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education work hour requirements without increasing resident complement, maximizing continuity of learning and patient care, maintaining patient care quality, and acceptance by residents, faculty, and administration.
In December 2008, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommended further reductions in duty hours to ensure safer conditions for patients and residents and fellows.
Significantly, the IOM committee acknowledged that there are barriers to implementing its recommendations.
The competency of professionalism encompasses a range of behaviors in multiple domains.
Residency programs are struggling to integrate and effectively assess professionalism.
Research defining professionalism exists, yet little is known about how residents view this important attribute for medical practice.
Knowing more about residents' interpretations of professionalism and about how they value professionalism would enhance definitions and facilitate support for the development of professionalism skills and behaviors at the graduate level.
The existing literature either does not address physician wellness or defines it as a lack of burnout.
The goal of this article is to call attention to this important gap in the literature and provide ideas for how to fill it.
We need a culture change, and we propose that this change begin within graduate medical education.
Currently, there are no widely accepted methods of assessing team effectiveness in this setting.
Simulation affords a method to assess team effectiveness.
The purpose of this study was to use a simulation setting to develop a specialized assessment instrument for team response in trauma resuscitation.
In surgical disciplines, structured tests as well as ongoing evaluation by faculty are used for evaluating resident competency.
The Outcome Project requires high-quality assessment approaches to provide reliable and valid judgments of the attainment of competencies deemed important for physician practice.
Many low- and moderate-income individuals and families have at least one unmet legal need (for example, unsafe housing conditions, lack of access to food and/or income support, lack of access to health care), which, if left unaddressed, can have harmful consequences on health.
Eighty unique medical-legal partnership programs, serving over 180 clinics and hospitals nationwide, seek to combine the strengths of medical and legal professionals to address patients' legal needs before they become crises.
Each partnership is adapted to serve the specific needs of its own patient base.
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education program requirements for internal medicine residency training include a longitudinal, continuity experience with a panel of patients.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) uses a 29-question Resident Survey for yearly residency program assessments.
This article also describes methodology for setting thresholds that may assist Residency Review Committees in identifying programs with potential compliance problems.
There have been numerous advances in the area of assisted reproduction.
Among the various reasons of implantation failure, intrauterine lesions play an important role.
There are many different techniques for the conservative management of DUB.
Medical management, LNG-IUD, hysteroscopic resection and various global ablation techniques.
Fibroids are very common tumors affecting women for centuries, however surprising that no significant data is still available as to what could be the cause of fibroid?
Does it has any impact on fertility?
Outcomes of Laparoscopic myomectomy in infertility?
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a common, inherited, life-limiting disease that affects multiple systems of the human body.
Respiratory dysfunction is the primary complication and leading cause of death due to CF.
CF causes abnormal mucus secretion in the airways, leading to airway obstruction and mucus plugging, which in turn can lead to bacterial infection and further mucous production.
Over time, this almost cyclical process contributes to severe airway damage and loss of respiratory function.
A variety of methods are available for airway clearance, some requiring mechanical devices, others physical manipulation of the body (e.g.
physiotherapy).
CF patients are, however, living much longer now than in decades past.
The prevalence has also risen accordingly, last recorded as 3,453 in Canada in 2002, up from 1,630 in 1977.
AIRWAY CLEARANCE DEVICES: THERE ARE AT LEAST THREE CLASSES OF AIRWAY CLEARANCE DEVICES: positive expiratory pressure devices (PEP), airway oscillating devices (AOD; either handheld or stationary) and high frequency chest compression (HFCC)/mechanical percussion (MP) devices.
Within these classes are numerous different brands of devices from various manufacturers, each with subtle iterations.
EVIDENCE-BASED ANALYSIS OF EFFECTIVENESS:
AOD, airway oscillating device; CCPT, conventional chest physiotherapy; CI, confidence interval; HFCC, high frequency chest compression; MP, mechanical percussion; N/A: not applicable; PEP, positive expiratory pressure
Devices ranged in cost from around $60 for PEP and handheld AODs to upwards of $18,000 for a HFCC vest device.
Although the majority of device costs are paid out-of-pocket by the patients themselves, their parents, or covered by third-party medical insurance, Ontario did provide funding assistance through the Assistive Devices Program (ADP) for postural drainage boards and MP devices.
These technologies, however, are either obsolete or their clinical efficacy is not supported by evidence.
ADP provided roughly $16,000 in funding for the 2008/09 fiscal year.
Using device costs and prevalent and incident cases of CF in Ontario, budget impact projections were generated for Ontario.
Budget impact projections indicated that PEP and handheld AODs were highly economically feasible costing around $90,000 for the entire prevalent population and less than $3,000 per year to cover new incident cases.
HFCC vest devices were by far the most expensive, costing in excess of $19 million to cover the prevalent population alone.
TARGET POPULATION AND CONDITION Psoriasis is a common chronic, systemic inflammatory disease affecting the skin, nails and occasionally the joints and has a lifelong waning and waxing course.
The immune-mediated disease has several clinical presentations with the most common (85% - 90%) being plaque psoriasis.
Characteristic features of psoriasis include scaling, redness, and elevation of the skin.
The etiology of psoriasis is unknown but is thought to result from complex interactions between the environment and predisposing genes.
Management of psoriasis is related to the extent of the skin involvement, although its presence on the hands, feet, face or genitalia can present challenges.
Moderate-to-severe psoriasis is managed by phototherapy and a range of systemic agents including traditional immunosuppressants such as methotrexate and cyclospsorin.
Treatment plans are based on a long-term approach to managing the disease, patient's expectations, individual responses and risk of complications.
stress, infections and medications).
Individual responses and commitments to therapy also present possible limitations.
PHOTOTHERAPY: Ultraviolet phototherapy units have been licensed since February 1993 as a class 2 device in Canada.
Units are available as hand held devices, hand and foot devices, full-body panel, and booth styles for institutional and home use.
Units are also available with a range of ultraviolet A, broad and narrow band ultraviolet B (BB-UVB and NB-UVB) lamps.
After establishing appropriate ultraviolet doses, three-times weekly treatment schedules for 20 to 25 treatments are generally needed to control symptoms.
In April 2008, the Medical Advisory Secretariat began an evidence-based review of the literature concerning pressure ulcers.Please visit the Medical Advisory Secretariat Web site, http://www.health.gov.on.ca/english/providers/program/mas/tech/tech_mn.html to review these titles that are currently available within the Pressure Ulcers series.PRESSURE ULCER PREVENTION: an evidence based analysisThe cost-effectiveness of prevention strategies for pressure ulcers in long-term care homes in Ontario: projections of the Ontario Pressure Ulcer Model (field evaluation)MANAGEMENT OF CHRONIC PRESSURE ULCERS: an evidence-based analysis
A pressure ulcer is a localized injury to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence, as a result of pressure, or pressure in conjunction with shear and/or friction.
Many areas of the body, especially the sacrum and the heel, are prone to the development of pressure ulcers.
Other factors that predispose people to pressure ulcer formation are poor nutrition, poor sensation, urinary and fecal incontinence, and poor overall physical and mental health.
Wounds normally heal in 3 phases (inflammatory phase, a proliferative phase of new tissue and matrix formation, and a remodelling phase).
However, pressure ulcers often fail to progress past the inflammatory stage.
A variety of adjunctive physical therapies are also in use.
Endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) allows the exclusion of the dilated aneurismal segment of the aorta from the systematic circulation.
The procedure requires, however, that the endograft extends to the healthy parts of the aorta above and below the aneurysm, yet the neck of a juxtarenal aortic aneurysm (JRA) is too short for a standard endovascular repair.
Fenestrated endovascular aortic repair (f-EVAR) provides a solution to overcome this problem by enabling the continuation of blood flow to the renal and visceral arteries through holes or 'fenestrations' in the graft.
These fenestrations are designed to match the ostial diameter of the renal and visceral arteries.There are three varieties fenestration, small, large, and scallop, and their location needs to be customized to fit the anatomy of the patient.
If the device is not properly designed, if the alignment is inaccurate, or if the catheterization of the visceral arteries is not possible, the procedure may fail.
The technique of fenestrated endovascular grafting is still in evolution and few studies have been with published mid-term outcome data.
As the technique become more common in vascular surgery practices, it will be important to determine if it can provide better outcomes than open surgical repair (OSR).
In an OSR approach, aortic clamping above one or both renal arteries, or above the visceral arteries, is required.
The higher the level of aortic clamping, the greater the risk of cardiac stress and renal or visceral ischemia.
During suprarenal or supraceliac aortic clamping, strain-induced myocardial ischemia may also occur due to concomitant rise in cardiac afterload and a decrease in cardiac output.
Reports indicate that 6% of patients undergoing surgical repair develop myocardial infarction.
The ideal level of clamp location remains controversial with conflicting views having been reported.
CONDITION AND TARGET POPULATION OSA is characterized by repeated occurrences of upper airway collapse and obstruction during sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF ORAL APPLIANCES: ORAL APPLIANCES FOR OSA FALL INTO TWO BROAD CATEGORIES: mandibular advancement splints (MAS), also known as mandibular repositioning devices, and tongue repositioning or retaining devices.
The aim of MAS devices is to advance the mandible forward slightly to enlarge the upper airway and prevent it from collapsing.
Similarly, tongue repositioning devices suction the tongue forward to prevent it from falling back and obstructing the airway during sleep.
The alternatives to oral appliances include continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices, surgery, drug therapy, positional devices, and lifestyle modification.
Obstructive sleep apnea, oral appliances, mandibular advancement splints, tongue repositioning devices.
To assess the types of such diseases and to determine changing trends in their incidence we performed this study.
Aminoglycosides, as potent bactericidal antibiotics against aerobic gram-negative infections, is still widely used, especially in NICU patients, despite their known potential ototoxic effects.
Ear squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a tumor with a poor prognosis, due to a late initial diagnosis because of a concealment by primarily benign symptoms and due to the unfavorable localization including the infiltration of important structures such as the middle ear, mandibular joint or dura.
Myringoplasty is one of the various surgical techniques for the management of chronic supurative otitis media of tubotympanic type (CSOM-TT).
The presence of a perforation of tympanic membrane with intermittent discharge and hearing loss of conductive nature are the indications of myringoplasty.
permeatal, endaural, or post-aural.
It is a beneficial procedure done for closing tympanic membrane perforation and improving hearing.
Head and neck cancer constitute one of the commonest cancers in India.
Use of smokeless tobacco (pan masala, gutka, zarda, etc.)
is the maximum in Gujarat, especially in and around Ahmedabad, and it is responsible for a large majority of these cancers.
Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) in later stages invariably leads to trismus due to retromolar fibrosis and buccal mucosa involvement.
Medical treatment has limited role once trismus is established.
Various surgical methods have been used with varying success to relieve trismus.
We used diode laser to relieve trismus.
All patients were diagnosed to have OSMF with trismus.
The results are quite encouraging.
Mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) is an endodontic material with different clinical applications e.g.
root-end filling, pulp capping and perforation repair.
It has been reported to possess antimicrobial and antifungal activities.
The aim of this study was to examine the effect of White MTA on formalin-induced hyperalgesia in a rat with inflammatory pain.
Sealing ability of root-end filling materials is of great importance.
It can be investigated by measuring microleakage.
Sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) is an effective antimicrobial irrigant, however its toxic effects and deterrent odor are not ideal.
Carvacrol is an edible plant extract with anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial properties that is effective against Enterococcus (E) faecalis.
The aim of this study was to evaluate Carvacrol's antibacterial efficacy against E. faecalis bacteria as a final irrigant.
The purpose of this ex vivo study was to assess the effect of two root-end filling materials against Candida (C) Albicans.
Biocompatibility is a desirable feature for root-end filling materials.
In this study we aimed to compare a new material called cold ceramic (CC) with intermediate restorative material (IRM) and mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) using Methyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay.
Particle size and distribution can influence the properties of materials.
This study analyzed and compared the particle size of Root MTA, calcium hydroxide (CH), and a new endodontic cement called calcium enriched material (CEM).
Bone regeneration grafts (BRG) are widely used in the treatment of osseous defects and oral surgery.
The aim of this systematic review was to compare alveolar bone regeneration in humans using Bio-Oss and autogenous bone graft.
Preparation techniques and instruments produce and push debris out of canals.
This can induce inflammation within the periapical area.
Therefore, instrumentation that causes less extrusion of debris is more desirable.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate the quantity of debris extruded from the apical foramen during root canal preparation by using one hand, and two rotary instrumentation techniques.
It has been demonstrated that organic content of the root canals can influence the antimicrobial capability of chemical irrigants.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of bovine serum albumin (BSA), as an organic material, on the antimicrobial activity of several intracanal irrigants.
Controversial results have been reported when organic acids, ultrasonic instruments and laser techniques were used to remove smear layer in endodontic treatments.
The purpose of this in vitro study was to compare apical microleakage after obturation with Nickel-Titanium (NiTi) compared to Stainless Steel (SS) finger spreaders.
The purpose of this study was to compare the subcutaneous tissue responses of freshly mixed or set endodontic root canal sealers (i.e.
RoekoSeal, AH26, AH Plus) in Wistar Albino rats.
NONE DECLARED.
Agency for healthcare quality and accreditation in Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (AKAZ) is authorized body in the field of healthcare quality and safety improvement and accreditation of healthcare institutions.
Beside accreditation standards for hospitals and primary health care centers, AKAZ has also developed accreditation standards for family medicine teams.
NONE DECLARED.
NONE DECLARED.
The analysis identifies eight active major informatics journals and several other publications.
Most are subscription-based and published at least quarterly.
There is a possibility for the editors to meet regularly and form a community of practice with the aim of further improving their effectiveness in disseminating new knowledge and best practice in medical informatics.
It is feasible to share expertise and it may be possible to harmonise several aspects of preparation and submission of manuscripts so that some of the identified barriers in publishing are reduced.
NONE DECLARED.
NONE DECLARED.
Through psychological support for prison guard's awareness about professional stress and burn-out, cognitive assessment of stress consequences, insight in coping strategies, as well as prevention of stress consequences is achieved.
NONE DECLARED Waste management is one of the key ecological challenges of the modern world.
As dental practitioners, we must recognize that some of the materials and procedures we use to provide dental health services may present challenges to the environment.
Realizing this, we can begin to take measures to minimize the production of these wastes and their potential environmental effects.
Dental office waste typically cause toxic chemicals to enter our streams, sewers, and landfills.
This paper identifies some common wastes produced by dental offices (dental amalgam, silver, lead, biomedical and general office waste) and provides practical suggestions for reducing the impact of our profession on the environment.
To dispose of dental wastes, if recycling is not an option, proper disposal as hazardous waste is necessary.
But, problem is that dental waste is in most cases dumped at uncontrolled disposal sites, and that is public health and ecological risk.
Technology encompasses the skills, knowledge and ability to understand, use and create useful things.
Evaluation of health technology is the systematic evaluation of characteristics, results or impact of health technologies.
The primary purpose of evaluation is to provide information to responsible parties for the technology in the health care system, which will be used in decision-making and introduction of these technologies.
Information technology in medicine and health care represents all medical and health technology in the process of work, monitoring and evaluation done using computer technology.
Progress of medical science in recent years especially needs to thank to the development of information technologies.
The health care system of Bosnia and Herzegovina is currently operating in the two sub-systems of primary health care.
One is inherited from the past system, in which the primary health care is provided by general practitioners, specialists in general practice, as well as gynecologists, pediatricians and pulmologists, and the second subsystem occurs when in PHC is introduced the system of family medicine doctors and family medicine specialists.
Family medicine, based on the concept of orientation towards the methods which are more effective, rational and cost-effective health care, use of defined procedures and evidence-based medicine, and more adequate education can empower and stimulate general practice doctors, especially family medicine specialists, who have passed various forms of training and courses in this area, to more rational and efficient use of diagnostic technology in their daily practice, without unnecessary duplication of tests.
With this they make savings to the healthcare system, improve the financial position of overall health system, especially in the PHC segment, increase satisfaction of doctors providing that health care, but also the users of health services.
NONE DECLARED In order to speed up and simplify the self assessment and external assessment process, provide better overview and access to Accreditation Standards for Family Medicine Teams and better assessment documents archiving, Agency for Healthcare Quality and Accreditation in Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (AKAZ) has developed self assessment and externals assessment software for family medicine teams.
(a) to develop an underwater chronometer capable to provide feedback while the athlete is swimming, as well as being a control tool for the coach, and (b) to analyse its feedback effect on swim pace control compared with feedback provided by the coach and with no feedback, in 25 m and 50 m swimming pools.
30 male swimmers of national level volunteer to participate.
Each swimmer swam 3 x 200 m at aerobic speed (AS) and 3 x 200 m just under the anaerobic threshold speed (AnS), each swam repetition with a different feedback condition: chronometer, coach and without feedback.
Key pointsProviding concurrent feedback to swimmers improves theis swimming pace control.It is more important to provide feedback to control swim pace when the swimming pool is 50m long.Technological development as this chronometer system, could offload coach work, so coach can focus its time and attention on other performance aspects or other swimmers.Technological developments are more accepted by coaches when they don't interfere on swimmers execution, that is, whet it is not necessary to implement the swimmer with cables and apparatus.
The importance of movement is often overlooked because it is such a natural part of human life.
It is, however, crucial for a child's physical, cognitive and social development.
In addition, experiences support learning and development of fundamental movement skills.
The foundations of those skills are laid in early childhood and essential to encourage a physically active lifestyle.
Fundamental movement skill performance can be examined with several assessment tools.
The choice of a test will depend on the context in which the assessment is planned.
It discusses the tools' usefulness for the assessment of movement skill development in general population samples.
After a brief description of each assessment tool the article focuses on contents, reliability, validity and normative data.
Key pointsThis review discusses seven movement skill assessment tool's test content, reliability, validity and normative samples.The seven assessment tools all showed to be of great value.
MOT 4-6: Motoriktest fur vier- bis sechsjhrige Kinder, M-ABC: Movement Assessment Battery for Children, PDMS: Peabody Development Scales, KTK: Krper-Koordinationtest fr Kinder, TGDM: Test of Gross Motor Development, MMT: Maastrichtse Motoriektest, BOTMP: Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency.
ICC: intraclass correlation coefficient, NR: not reported, GM: gross motor, LV: long version, SV: short version, LF: long form, SF: short form, STV: subtest version, SEMs: standard errors of measurement, TMQ: Total Motor Quotient, TMC: Total Motor Composite, CSSA: Comprehensive Scales of Student Abilities MSEL: Mullen Scales of Early learning: AGS Edition AUC: Areas under curve BC: Battery composite ROC: Receiver operating characteristic.
Skeletal muscle-derived interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine which regulates body metabolism during strenuous physical exercise.
Music and video are utilised by recreational gym users to enhance their exercise experience.
Music and video have not been investigated for their combined ergogenic effect during high intensity exercise.
To induce fatigue, this study was performed in warm (~26C), moist conditions (~50%RH).
Each participant completed three 30-minute exercise bouts on a motorised treadmill under three counterbalanced conditions on separate days: control (CON), motivational music plus video intervention (M), non-motivational intervention (NM).
Participants did not receive any feedback of time elapsed, distance run or speed.
Sample 1 (prediction sample) comprised 39 subjects (19 male and 20 female), with 58.2  11.0 years old.
Sample 2 (validation sample) comprised 40 subjects (18 male and 22 female) with 63.3  7.0 years old.
Each participant did the following activities in sequence, a 15min rest period in supine position, walk at 3km/h, walk at 4.5km/h, and walk at 6km/h, for 6 min at each walk velocity interval.
The oxygen up-take (VO2) and heart rate (HR) were continuously and simultaneously assessed.
A hierarchical linear model was used to analyze the relationship between metabolic equivalent (MET) and NetHR.
The regression equation for MET prediction was: MET = 1.265780 + 0.109479 NetHR.
The NetHR thresholds (upper limit) for light, moderate and vigorous PA were 16 and 35 and 70 bpm, respectively.
During the two year study there were more female (61.3%) than male patients (38.7%).
The average hospitalization duration was 45 days, and the most often hospitalization duration was from 1 to 3 months.
We can conclude that Day Hospital has great significance in the mental health prevention.
Daily structured program provides hospital diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of persons of both genders from different age groups and with diverse psychopathology.
The pathogenesis of vasomotor rhinitis is not understood.
It is unlikely that antihistamines, based on their H1 antagonist activity alone, would be effective in this disorder.
The parasympathetic nervous system contributes to the pathophysiology of multiple forms of allergic and nonallergic rhinitis.
Stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system leads to glandular activation, which produces watery secretions.
In excess, these secretions discharge from the anterior Nares and produce the symptom of watery anterior rhinorrhea.
Obesity is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
Endothelial dysfunction assessed in the peripheral circulation is associated with obesity, however, little is known if this association also exists in the coronary circulation.
Obesity has become a threat to public health, as the epidemic is not confined to developed countries but is affecting many developing countries.
To determine the contribution of overweight and obesity to five chronic conditions using the population attributable risk (PAR) statistic.
The dramatic rise in the use of prescription opioids to treat non-cancer pain has been paralleled by increasing prescription opioid abuse.
However, detailed analyses of these trends and programs to address them are lacking.
No previous studies have evaluated the impact of MMT in a wealthy Chinese province.
However, little is known about the incidence rate and injury patterns associated with ankle sprains in this population.
Tendon disorders comprise 30% to 50% of all activity-related injuries; chronic degenerative tendon disorders (tendinopathy) occur frequently and are difficult to treat.
Tendon regeneration might be improved by injecting platelet-rich plasma (PRP), an increasingly used treatment for releasing growth factors into the degenerative tendon.
Sepsis bundles have been developed to improve patient outcomes by combining component therapies.
Valid bundles require effective components with additive benefits.
Proponents encourage evaluation of bundles, both as a whole and based on the performance of each component.
Insulin resistance features both endothelial dysfunction and increased oxidative stress.
Both disorders are targeted by a chronic treatment with sildenafil.
However, the mechanism of action by which chronic sildenafil exerts its effects on reactive oxygen species sources is still largely unknown.
Sexuality is an important part of health and well-being.
Sexual behavior modifies as pregnancy progresses, influenced by biological, psychological, and social factors.
The molecular pathogenesis of Peyronie's Disease (PD) remains unclear more than 250 years after its initial description.
Because of this, no test is currently available to accurately predict PD progression among those affected.
Duodenal perforations during diagnostic upper endoscopy are rare; however, when therapeutic techniques are performed, the reported incidence is as great as 2.8%.
Surgical repair is usually mandated, but it is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
EUS-guided FNA is currently advocated in lung cancer staging guidelines as an alternative for surgical staging to prove mediastinal metastases.
To date, training requirements for chest physicians to obtain competency in EUS for lung cancer staging are unknown.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
French Society of Cardiology.
National Institutes of Health.
Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland, University College London Hospitals Charity, and CSL-Behring.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any material discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The Spanish Ministry of Health commissioned the Galician Agency for Health Technology Assessment to monitor and follow-up Autologous Chondrocyte Implantation (ACI) used to treat chondral lesions of the knee in Spain.
The objective of this monitoring was to assess efficacy and safety of the technique.
Aristaless related homeobox (ARX) is a paired-type homeobox gene.
ARX function is frequently affected by naturally occurring mutations.
Nonsense mutations, polyalanine tract expansions and missense mutations in ARX cause a range of intellectual disability and epilepsy phenotypes with or without additional features including hand dystonia, lissencephaly, autism or dysarthria.
The Olympus colonoscopy simulator provides a high-fidelity training platform designed to develop knowledge and skills in colonoscopy.
It has the potential to shorten the learning process to competency.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
Rosai-Dorfman disease is a rare, idiopathic, histiocytic proliferative disorder with a distinctive microscopic appearance, which was formerly thought to be a disease process limited to lymph nodes.
Increased nitric oxide production and altered mitochondrial function have been implicated in sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction.
The molecular mechanisms underlying myocardial depression in sepsis and the contribution of nitric oxide in this process however, are incompletely understood.
This paper was a secondary analysis of clinical trial data.
CATNAP: CPAP Apnea Trial North American Program, the trial from which the data were obtained, is registered with clinicaltrial.gov.
Registration #NCT00089752.
None.
Stanford Cardiovascular Institute and the Breetwor Foundation.
National Institute of Aging and National Institute of Nursing Research.
Knowledge Translation (KT) has historically focused on the proper use of knowledge in healthcare delivery.
A knowledge base has been created through empirical research and resides in scholarly literature.
Some knowledge is amenable to direct application by stakeholders who are engaged during or after the research process, as shown by the Knowledge to Action (KTA) model.
Other knowledge requires multiple transformations before achieving utility for end users.
For example, conceptual knowledge generated through science or engineering may become embodied as a technology-based invention through development methods.
The invention may then be integrated within an innovative device or service through production methods.
To what extent is KT relevant to these transformations?
How might the KTA model accommodate these additional development and production activities while preserving the KT concepts?
The purpose of this study was to analyze the association of more virulent H. pylori strains with gastric cancer.
Co-evolution is the process in which two (or more) sets of orthologs exhibit a similar or correlative pattern of evolution.
Co-evolution is a powerful way to learn about the functional interdependencies between sets of genes and cellular functions and to predict physical interactions.
More generally, it can be used for answering fundamental questions about the evolution of biological systems.Orthologs that exhibit a strong signal of co-evolution in a certain part of the evolutionary tree may show a mild signal of co-evolution in other branches of the tree.
Previous publications in the field dealt with the problem of finding sets of genes that co-evolved along an entire underlying phylogenetic tree, without considering the fact that often co-evolution is local.
Such bioentities are often related to biological concepts of interest that are specific of a determined research field.
Combinations of trastuzumab with either docetaxel or vinorelbine are considered valuable treatment options for HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer patients.
Fracture of the os peroneus with retraction of the peroneus longus tendon can lead to weakness, instability, and progressive foot deformity.
The distal fragment was captured with a looped suture which allowed avoidance of a plantar exposure while still achieving an adequate repair.
We also describe a technique for retinaculoplasty of the inferior peroneal retinaculum which we believe important to prevent postoperative adhesions to the tendon.
More than 6000 healthy US individuals every year undergo nephrectomy for the purposes of live donation; however, safety remains in question because longitudinal outcome studies have occurred at single centers with limited generalizability.
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health.
None.
The American Thyroid Association recently changed its management guidelines for papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) to include routine central neck lymph node dissection (CLND) during thyroidectomy.
We currently perform CLND during thyroidectomy only if enlarged central nodes are detected by palpation or ultrasonography; we perform CLND in the reoperative setting for recurrence in previously normal-appearing or incompletely resected nodes.
Critics of this approach argue that reoperative CLND has higher complication and recurrence rates than initial CLND.
We sought to test this argument, using it as our hypothesis.
ACTRN12609000696291Ethics Approval Southern Health: HREC Ref: 09271B.
The purpose of this report is to document the first case of Fournier's gangrene in a cat that presented for mucoid anal discharge, lethargy, and mild ataxia, and to alert emergency clinicians to this disease process.
Participants included about 200 leading international researchers, policymakers, health care practitioners and philanthropists.
A near-final draft of this report was sent three weeks in advance to help co-chairs and participants prepare for workgroup discussions.
Twelve thematic workgroups, composed of interdisciplinary experts, made recommendations on short-, intermediate-, and long-term milestones, and success metrics.
Recommendations are based on the following themes: (1) advance discovery of the magnitude, causes and innovative solutions; (2) promote development and delivery of low-cost, proven interventions; (3) improve advocacy efforts to increase awareness that preterm birth and stillbirth are leading contributors to the global health burden; (4) increase resources for research and implementation; and (5) consider ethical and social justice implications throughout all efforts.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Capsule endoscopy is considered a major diagnostic tool for small-bowel diseases, but the impact of capsule endoscopy imaging on patient management in HHT is poorly understood.
AstraZeneca.
French Ministry of Health.
National Cancer Institute.
Obstetricians &amp; Gynecologist, Family Physicians.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The World Anti-Doping Agency.
Double-balloon enteroscopy (DBE) is an important tool in the evaluation and management of small-bowel disease.
Limited data are available on the safety, findings, and outcomes of DBE in elderly patients.
Catheter-related infections are frequent complications in hospitalized patients, and Staphylococcus aureus is a frequent etiologic agent.
Little is known about factors that contribute to the growth and viability of S. aureus within contaminated catheters.
Studies of the genetics of obstructive sleep apnea may be facilitated by identifying intermediate traits with high heritability that quantify etiological pathways, such as those related to respiratory control.
We evaluated the familial aggregation of distinctive spectrographic biomarkers of unstable sleep, related to elevated-low frequency cardiopulmonary coupling (e-LFC), to assess their utility in genetic studies.
The existence of the G-spot is controversial.
Fabry disease is an X-linked multisystem disorder due to alpha galactosidase A deficiency leading to glycosphingolipid accumulation with a predilection for the vascular endothelium and affecting the cardiovascular, renal, and neurologic systems.
Previous clinical studies on effect of statins treatment on testosterone (T) levels have produced mixed results.
The gene encoding endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is an interesting candidate gene for understanding the physiopathology of ED, as it is involved in the catalytic production of nitric oxide (NO), the neurotransmitter that plays a critical role in penile tumescence and erection.
Menopause requires psychological and physical adjustments because of the occurring significant hormonal changes.
Sexuality is one of the aspects that undergoes the most profound modifications.
Preliminary data suggest that sometimes women do not regard sexual changes as problematic and often readjust their life and relationship according to their new physical status.
None.
Health Resources and Services Administration Special Projects of National Significance program.
Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) remains the least recognized form of atherosclerosis.
The Ankle-Brachial Index (ABI) has emerged as one of the potent markers of diffuse atherosclerosis, cardiovascular (CV) risk, and overall survival in general public, especially in diabetics.
The important reason for the lack of early diagnosis is the non-availability of a test that is easy to perform and less expensive, with no training required.
One of the factors involved in type 2 diabetes in males is a reduction in levels of testosterone, which has been shown to predict resistance to insulin and the development of cardiovascular diseases.
Occupational accidents are a major point of concern in industries.
The academic community should take the first step to address the long-neglected concerns of occupational safety.
Cytological screening (Pap smear) have been claimed to reduce incidence and mortality of carcinoma cervix significantly for which sensitization of women is required through community-based approach.
smoking, physical inactivity, and unhealthy diet) can lead to the reduction of major chronic diseases.
Awareness towards tobacco hazards has increased with time but its role alone towards cessation is questionable.
With widespread menace of tobacco in developing countries like India, not much tobacco chewing prevalence and their quitting patterns data are available in urban Saurashtra region.
(1) Its socioeconomic repercussions are a matter of great concern.
The government launched a National Leprosy Eradication program in 1983, to eliminate leprosy from India.
A Modified Leprosy Elimination Campaign was started with the view to early case detection and treatment.
In April 2004, a vertical program of leprosy was merged with the general health services and case detection was conducted by the general health workers in India.
Serosurvey is frequently used to assess epidemiologic pattern of Rubella in a community.
Serosurveys in different parts of India have found that 6-47% of women are susceptible for Rubella infection.
Hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and HIV infections are a serious global and public health problem.
A private hospital catering to the needs of a large population represents an important center for serological surveys.
Diffused endothelial dysfunction in sepsis leads to an increase in systemic capillary permeability, the renal component manifesting as microalbuminuria.
THIS STUDY AIMS TO COMPARE TWO VASOCONSTRICTORS: - norepinephrine and phenylephrine - in the management of dopamine-resistant septic shock.
Septic shock remains a major cause of multiple organ failure and is associated with a high mortality rate.
In 1994, direct hemoperfusion using a polymyxin B-immobilized fiber column (PMX; Toray Industries Inc., Tokyo Japan) was developed in Japan and has since been used for the treatment of septic shock arising from endotoxemia.
Pediatric sepsis is a commonly encountered global issue.
Neurogenic components, as neurotrophic factors and neuropeptides, are probably involved in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD) with the neuroimmunocutaneous system as they modify the functions of immunoactive cells in the skin.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is the best-characterized member of the neurotrophin family.
Both NGF and neuropeptides (NPs) may be associated with the disease pathogenesis.
Despite of all the problems caused by lymphedema, this disease continues to affect millions of people worldwide.
There have been various controversial reports regarding the efficacy of topical agents in topical therapy of alopecia areata.
Toenail onychomycosis is a challenge for clinicians to treat.
While both Itraconazole and terbinafine have proven to be effective against onychomycosis, very little is known about their comparative efficacy in achieving mycological and clinical cure.
New treatments are being developed, but antihistaminics remain the cornerstone of the therapeutic approach.
Newer generation antihistaminics such as loratadine and levocetirizine have already proved to be safe and efficacious for CIU.
The repercussion of the heated dispute on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) led to the national and international withdrawal of several of the recently introduced coxibs.
Further debate and research have highlighted risks of the classical NSAIDs too.
There is much controversy about the cardiovascular safety of a nonselective NSAID naproxen (NAP) and its possible cardioprotective effect.
Rectal cancer constitutes about one-third of all gastrointestinal (GI) tract tumors.
Because of the high recurrence rates (30%) in rectal cancer, it is vitally important to accurately stage these tumours preoperatively so that appropriate surgical resection can be undertaken.
Estradiol levels fall rapidly in the luteal phase of ART cycles.
So far, the effect of this estradiol decline on pregnancy outcome has remained controversial.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Sanofi-aventis.
Nonetheless, a substantial miss rate with conventional, white-light colonoscopy (WL) remains a challenge.
None.
National Institute for Nursing Research and National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities.
Pulse diagnosis of the peripheral artery is an important technique in Traditional Chinese Medicine, where, in acupuncture therapy, the treatment is adjusted according to the observed changes of the pulse.
We investigated the change of blood flow in the peripheral artery and the cardiac index during acupuncture treatment.
However, there are a few long-term survival data of the inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP) over 10 years.
No multivariable model is currently available for the prediction of erectile function (EF) recovery after bilateral nerve sparing radical prostatectomy (BNSRP).
Although epidemiological evidence seems to support a role for lifestyle factors in the pathogenesis of erectile dysfunction (ED), limited data are available suggesting that dietary changes may improve ED.
Although approximately 40% of women report female sexual problems--and particularly sexual desire disorders, there are numerous practical, professional, and personal barriers to their diagnosis and management by treating clinicians.
Few studies are available to compare the potential benefits of natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) approaches to traditional surgery.
Single-balloon enteroscopy (SBE) is a novel, deep-enteroscopy modality for diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the small bowel.
Currently, no endoscopic clips have been proven to be effective in ligating the cystic duct in natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) hybrid cholecystectomy.
Several articles have reported the usefulness of large-balloon dilation after endoscopic sphincterotomy in removing bile duct stones.
Its histological effect on the duodenal papilla and the lower bile duct, however, is not well established.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
National Institutes of Health.
None.
Austrian Science Fund and Austrian Academy of Science.
Saint Louis University Liver Center.
The possibility that combination antibiotic therapy of bacterial septic shock improves outcome is controversial.
Current guidelines do not recommend combination therapy except for the express purpose of broadening coverage when resistant pathogens are a concern.
Limited data suggest that moderate alcohol drinkers may have better lung airways function than abstainers.
Because few studies have fully accounted for confounders (including smoking and coronary disease), and some might have been biased by the inclusion with nondrinkers of alcohol drinkers who quit because of illness, we performed a cross-sectional analysis in a large free-living population.
This outreach may be seen as an example of delivering culturally competent medical care, a prime objective of family medicine.
Some psychiatric patients are presented as hopeless, burned out, and devoid of social graces.
A narrative perspective allows anyone to emerge as a richly complex human being.
Hyponatremia is a common electrolyte imbalance in hospitalized patients.
It is associated with significant morbidity and mortality, especially if the underlying cause is incorrectly diagnosed and not treated appropriately.
Often, the hospitalist is faced with a clinical dilemma when a patient presents with hyponatremia of an unclear etiology and with uncertain volume status.
Disc degeneration is a major reason for low back pain and can be caused by apoptosis.
The prevention of apoptosis using mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) may lead to new treatments for low back pain.
Previous studies have reported that transplanted MSCs can proliferate and differentiate into cells expressing some of the major phenotypic qualities of nucleus pulposus cells.
However, the effects of MSC transplantation on the disc height index (DHI) and apoptosis inhibition have not yet been thoroughly investigated.
A variety of factors have been linked to post-ERCP pancreatitis.
However, the role of biliary stenting has not been well studied.
Split-dose bowel preparations for colonoscopy are more effective and better tolerated than preparations given entirely the day or evening before the procedure; however, some resistance to split-dose preparation stems from concerns about an increased risk of aspiration with same-day preparation.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
National Institutes of Health.
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
None.
Monopolar electrocautery has had a limited role in the endoscopic therapy of nonvariceal upper GI bleeding because of the lack of specifically designed endoscopic instruments and limited data on how to use this technology for endoscopic applications.
Failures of adenoma detection diminish the effectiveness of colonoscopy.
Secure closure of the colonic access site is one of the most important issues for the development of natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery.
Endoscopic resection and radiofrequency ablation are now established therapies for high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia and mucosal cancer complicating Barrett's esophagus.
National Institutes of Health.
National Cancer Institute.
Most men do not seek medical help for their ED because of embarrassment or social stigma that may lead some men to self-treat.
Merged with the National Cause of Death Register, including information about vital status of all Swedish citizens, the National Patient Registry, containing diagnoses at discharge for all hospital stays in Sweden and the National Registry of Drug prescriptions recording all drug prescriptions in Sweden.
Available for research by application to the SWEDEHEART steering group.
Atypical myopathy is an acute, severe rhabdomyolysis occurring in grazing horses.
Recent observational studies suggest that bleeding from stress ulceration is extremely uncommon in intensive care unit patients.
Furthermore, the risk of bleeding may not be altered by the use of acid suppressive therapy.
Stress ulcer prophylaxis may, however, increase the risk of hospital-acquired pneumonia and Clostridia difficile infection.
Pagetoid reticulosis is a rare variant of mycosis fungoides.
This rare condition typically presents as a solitary plaque located on the extremities with an indolent clinical course (Woringer-Kolopp disease) or as a more generalized presentation with diffuse cutaneous involvement and a more aggressive clinical course (Ketron-Goodman disease).
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussedin this article
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Unstable burst fractures of the thoracolumbar spine may be treated surgically.
Vertebral body replacements (VBRs) give anterior column support and, when used with supplemental fixation, impart rigidity to the injured segments.
Although some VBRs are expandable, device congruity to the vertebral end plates is imprecise and may lead to stress risers and device subsidence.
Transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1) has been identified as an important fibrogenic cytokine associated with Peyronie's disease (PD).
It is a common practice to soak Titan() Coloplast penile implants in antibiotic solution prior to implantation.
Aim.
The aim of this study is to identify an ideal solution for soaking the Titan() Coloplast penile implants prior to implantation.
Aging increases the risk of both erectile dysfunction (ED) and cardiovascular disease.
These conditions have similar etiologies and commonly coexist.
One unifying concept is the role of arterial insufficiency which is a primary factor in the onset of age-related ED.
Where penile implants have failed, there is no good surgical alternative at present.
Flibanserin, a novel 5-HT(1A) agonist and 5-HT(2A) antagonist, has the potential to treat sexual dysfunction.
To evaluate if treatment is indicated we have used principal medical guidelines.
Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube placement can improve the nutritional status and the ability of a patient with cirrhosis to recover from surgery such as orthotopic liver transplantation.
However, cirrhosis has been considered a significant contraindication to PEG tube placement.
Medical Research Council of the United Kingdom, Chief Scientist Office of the Scottish Government, and Chest Heart and Stroke Scotland.
National Institute on Aging, National Center for Research Resources, National Institute on Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, and National Palliative Care Research Center.
None.
Various conservative treatments for Peyronie's disease (PD) have been attempted over the years.
Intralesional verapamil injection has been tested in prospective randomized studies, but the effect of this treatment seems insufficient.
Nicardipine is a calcium antagonist alternative to verapamil and is reportedly more effective in vitro.
It requires urgent treatment as delay may lead to irreversible penile ischemia and gangrene.
Various objects causing penile strangulation have been reported.
Nonmetallic and thin metallic objects can be removed easily as compared to heavy metallic objects.
Cutting is the commonest method described, although procuring special cutting tools may be difficult and the process of cutting may be tedious with the possibility of iatrogenic penile injury.
Outside of subcortical structures traditionally thought to be involved in reward-related systems, a wide range of neuroimaging studies in relationship science indicate a prominent role for different cortical networks and cognitive factors.
Thus, the field needs a better anatomical/network/whole-brain model to help translate scientific knowledge from lab bench to clinical models and ultimately to the patients suffering from disorders associated with love and couple relationships.
Relatively little is known about sexual dysfunction (SD) in men who have sex with men (MSM).
In vitro studies have suggested the corneal cytotoxicity of third-generation fluoroquinolone levofloxacin (LVFX) and fourth-generation fluoroquinolone moxifloxacin hydrochloride (MFLX) among fluoroquinolone antibacterial eye drops.
Postoperative bacterial endophthalmitis is a devastating complication of cataract surgery.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) endophthalmitis is rare.
Recent debate over MRSA screening in United Kingdom (UK) National Health Service (NHS) hospital services has implications for cataract patients and ophthalmology services.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
14, No.
52.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
BHR Pharma.
Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio di Pistoia e Pescia (partial funding).
Angiopoietin-like protein 4 (ANGPTL4) is involved in regulating glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, angiogenesis and lipid metabolism, and also acts as an apoptosis survival factor for vascular endothelial cells.
Clinically, venous invasion resulting in distant metastasis is crucial for oesophageal cancer progression.
ClinicalTrials.Gov#NCT00105612, http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00105612.
Current amblyopia screening methods are not cost effective.
Pain perception, expression, tolerance, and the healthcare provider's evaluation and management of pain are affected by the gender of the patient.
To the best of our knowledge, there is lack of gender-based evaluation of pain during cataract surgery under topical anesthesia.
Men frequently develop diabetic erectile dysfunction (DMED), as a result of endothelial dysfunction.
Vault descent or prolapse occurs in about 20% after hysterectomy and can have a negative effect on sexual function.
Sacrocolpopexy is the gold standard of surgical treatment for apical prolapse in fit, sexually active patients.
Few data exist which determine sexual function after sacrocolpopexy.
Angiotensin II (AngII) activates p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and elevates arginase activity in endothelial cells.
Upregulation of arginase activity has been implicated in endothelial dysfunction by reducing nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability.
However, signaling pathways activated by AngII in the penis are largely unknown.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is highly prevalent among men undergoing hemodialysis.
PDE5 expression is up-regulated in human hypertrophied and failing hearts, and its inhibition (e.g., by sildenafil) stimulates protein kinase G activity, suppressing and reversing maladaptive hypertrophy, fibrosis, and contractile dysfunction.
Sildenafil is currently being clinically tested for the treatment of heart failure.
However, researchers of new studies have questioned the role of myocyte PDE5 and protein kinase G (PKG) to this process, proposing alternative targets and mechanisms.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia.
The Finnish Foundation for Cardiovascular Research and the Kuopio University EVO Foundation.
Botulinum toxin type A (BoNTA) is commonly injected to treat facial wrinkles.
Complications include pain, erythema, bruising, and potential infection.
RT001 Botulinum Toxin Type A Topical Gel (RT001) is under development for the treatment of lateral canthal lines (LCLs).
Transplantation medicine has significantly progressed in the last time, but some psychology and psychosomatic problems still remain unsolved.
This study was designed to evaluate the psychometric attributes and screening efficiency of a Spanish version of the Children Predictive Scales (DPS) against the Spanish Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children (DISC-IV).
Sequential multiple assignment randomized (SMAR) designs are used to evaluate treatment policies, also known as adaptive treatment strategies (ATS).
The determination of SMAR sample sizes is challenging because of the sequential and adaptive nature of ATS, and the multi-stage randomized assignment used to evaluate them.
Nonspecific spinal pain (NSP), comprising back and/or neck pain, is one of the leading disorders behind long-term sick-listing, including disability pensions.
Nonacute NSP is pain that leads to full-time sick-listing &gt;3 weeks.
The purpose of this report is to describe issues relevant to public health and to review all passenger ship associated diseases and outbreaks.
Moreover, legislation and practices on sanitation and diseases surveillance related to ships internationally were also reviewed.
Some relevant historical information about infections on merchant ships is provided as well.
There is no high quality evidence that supports or rejects the practice of placing a crown or onlay on a vital posterior tooth rather than a composite or amalgam restoration to ensure longer tooth survival.
Several medicinal plants have been described to be beneficial for cardiac ailments in Ayurveda like Ashwagandha and Arjuna.
Ashwagandha-categorised as Rasayanas, and described to promote health and longevity and Arjuna primarily for heart ailments.
coronary artery disease, heart failure, hypercholesterolemia, anginal pain and can be considered as a useful drug for coronary artery disease, hypertension and ischemic cardiomyopathy.
Nonsteroidal and steroidal drugs are generally used as a part of drug therapy in inflammation.
However, these drugs have severe side-effects like nausea and vomiting.
Therefore, there is a need to identify anti-inflammatory compounds that will be effective with a better safety profile.
Solanum xanthocarpum Schrad and Wendl and Cassia fistula Linn has many therapeutic uses mentioned in Ayurveda and therefore we aimed to study its anti-inflammatory activity both alone and in combination.
National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, National Institutes of Health.
The aim of this study was to determine whether any difference exists between the DU indices of the right and left kidney.
Statin therapy is a well established treatment for hyperlipidemia.
Esophageal perforation after external air-blast trauma is rarely presented in the emergency room.
The diagnosis is often delayed more than 24 hours.
Little is known about the relationship between sedative drugs used preoperatively and postoperative delirium.
Melatonin is a drug used to sedate patients preoperatively and is hypothesized by recent works to have a curative effect on postoperative delirium.
Needle length plays an important role for the success of ophthalmic block.
The standard practice is to use 25 mm needles length; however, unnecessarily long needles may increase the risk of complications especially in the presence of staphyloma or previous scleral buckle.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme and the Health Protection Agency.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
14, No.
55.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
In the tropics, rainfall data are seldom accurately recorded, and are often discontinuous in time.
In the scope of plague-research in northeast Tanzania, we adapted previous research to reconstruct rainfall patterns at a suitable resolution (1 km), based on time series of NDVI: more accurate satellite imagery was used, in the form of MODIS NDVI, and rainfall data were collected from the TRMM sensors instead of in situ data.
First, we established a significant relationship between monthly rainfall and monthly composited MODIS NDVI.
The established linear relationship was then used to reconstruct historic precipitation patterns over a mountainous area in northeastern Tanzania.
Obesity has become a major health problem across the world.
In women, it is known to cause anovulation, subfecundity, increased risk of fetal anomalies and miscarriage rates.
However, in women going for assisted reproduction the effects of obesity on egg quality, embryo quality, clinical pregnancy, live birth rates are controversial.
In protein expression, post-translational modification is an important process.
It is also an important process in human reproductive science.
ERp57 is a molecule that is mentioned for post-translational modification.
ERp57 is a component of human sperm acrosome proteins.
However, the data on post-translational modifications of ERp57 is limited.
Twin reversed arterial perfusion (TRAP) sequence is a rare complication of multiple pregnancy caused by defects in early embryogenesis.
The pump twin supplies the acardiac recipient twin with blood, and although the pump twin is usually structurally normal, congenital anomalies have sometimes been reported.
We report a unique case of twin reversed arterial perfusion sequence with a prenatal diagnosis of VACTERL association in the surviving pump twin.
Isolated hepatocytes removed from their microenvironment soon lose their hepatospecific functions when cultured.
Normally hepatocytes are commonly maintained under limited culture medium supply as well as scaffold thickness.
Thus, the cells are forced into metabolic stress that degenerate liver specific functions.
This study aims to improve hepatospecific activity by creating a platform based on classical collagen sandwich cultures.
Recently, we reported a neuroprotective effect for Hawthorn (Crataegus oxyacantha) ethanolic extract in middle cerebral artery occlusion-(MCAO) induced stroke in rats.
The present study sheds more light on the extract's mechanism of neuroprotection, especially its immunomodulatory effect.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major health problem worldwide, including Egypt.
Measuring liver stiffness is becoming more popular as a non-invasive tool for assessing liver fibrosis.
Retroperitoneal fibrosis is a fibroinflammatory disease of unknown etiology that can be associated with other fibroinflammatory disorders.
Giant cystic lymphangiomas of the liver are rare malformations of the lymphatic system usually found in children.
Lichen-derived glucans have been known to stimulate the functions of immune cells.
However, immunostimulatory activity of glucan obtained from edible lichen, Umbilicaria esculenta, has not been reported.
Thus we evaluated the phenotype and functional maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) following treatment of extracted glucan (PUE).
Dendritic cell (DC)-based tumor vaccine is an attractive modality for the treatment of colon cancer because it has been recurred and produced few side effects in patients.
Secretory glycoprotein 90K has been found at elevated level in various cancer tissues and sera.
We investigated to establish a more effective DC vaccine for the treatment of colon cancer in which the levels of 90K are elevated.
The stem bark of Kalopanax pictus (KP) has been used in traditional medicine to treat rheumatoidal arthritis, neurotic pain and diabetes mellitus in China and Korea.
In this study, the mechanism responsible for anti-inflammatory effects of KP was investigated.
N-myc downstream regulated gene 2 (NDRG2) is a member of the NDRG gene family.
Our previous report indicated a possible role for NDRG2 in regulating the cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10), which is an important immunosuppressive cytokine.
Several pathways, including p38-MAPK, NF-B, and JAK/STAT, are used for IL-10 production, and the JAK/STAT pathway can be inhibited in a negative feedback loop by the inducible protein, SOCS3.
In the present study, we investigated the effect of NDRG2 gene expression on IL-10 signaling pathway that is modulated via SOCS3 and STAT3.
The MK1 strain, a novel bacterial isolate from soft-rotten tissue of the Neungee mushroom, produces copious amounts of exopolysaccharide (EPS) in a dextrose minimal medium.
This study examined the molecular characteristics and immunomodulatory activity of MK1 EPS.
Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) recognizing Class III epitope of CD34 are essential for flow cytometric diagnosis of leukemia.
In haemophiliacs, synovectomy is indicated for recurrent joint bleedings, despite medical treatment.
To assess the severity and evolution of sinonasal symptoms in patients following endoscopic anterior skull base surgery to define the typical postoperative course.
Cerebellopontine angle lipomas are rare and attempts at surgical excision are associated with significant morbidity.
Lipomatosis of nerve, the fatty infiltration of nerves, is a distinct entity.
We present a case of intractible trigeminal neuralgia caused by lipomatosis of the trigeminal nerve.
Previous reports have indicated that open angle glaucoma is a major problem in the Upper East region of Ghana.
This study aims at addressing these issues in order to highlight the situation.
The burden of MDR-TB is unknown in areas that do not have drug susceptibility testing (DST), but its frequency is expected to be higher in previously treated cases.
Many studies show that the vast majority of Nigerian women register for antenatal care late and that the determinants may differ from those found in developed countries.
Antimalarial drug resistance has been a major contributor to the failure of the battle against malaria in many developing countries.
The P. falciparum genes, pfcrt and pfmdr-1, have been implicated in chloroquine resistance.
There are currently an estimated 10-12 million cases of leprosy in the world.
Most of these cases are children, indicating that new infections are still occurring in the communities.
Further studies might provide specific interventions to reduce the high prevalence.
The risk of complete heart block (CHB) from congenital heart repairs in Ghana is unknown.
Two new large poly-1,3-dodecylpyridinium salts, APS12 and APS12-2 of 12.5- and 14.7-kDa size, respectively, were synthesised and tested for their pore-forming and transfection capabilities in HEK 293 and undifferentiated mouse ES cells using patch-clamp recording, Ca(2+) imaging and flow cytometry.
Polymerisation reactions were enhanced by microwaves, and the product sizes were controlled by altering the irradiation time.
Molecular weights of the final products were determined using ESIMS analysis, which also indicated the products to be amongst the largest macro-cycles ever recorded, up to a 900-membered ring.
Anti-bacterial, haemolytic and anti-acetylcholinesterase activities were also reported for the two dodecyl pyridinium polymers.
These biological activities are characteristic to the structurally related marine toxin, poly-APS.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12154-010-0036-4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Laparoscopic surgery has been proposed to reduce surgical trauma and diminish patients' stress response.
Geriatric population and chronic diseases are increasing throughout the world especially in developing countries like India.
Because of social change and urbanization, disability is also a problem in India.
As the major reasons for geriatric disabilities are chronic diseases, a study was undertaken.
The purpose of this study was to analyze the pattern of mandibular fractures associated with domestic violence.
Decreased exercise capacity and development of obesity is common in this population.
These children may benefit from therapies, such as massage therapy, that could enhance cardiovascular and skeletal muscle function when they exercise.
Erythromelalgia is characterized by temperature-dependent redness, pain, and warmth in one or more extremities.
It may be a primary disease, or it may occur secondarily because of underlying illness.
It is a chronic, debilitating condition often resistant to medical treatment.
Conventional medicine and complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) are merging into the broader field of "integrative medicine."
Massage is no longer considered complementary or alternative in some conventional medical circles today.
Passive [central nervous system (CNS)-independent] resting myofascial tension is present in the body and provides a low-level stabilizing component to help maintain balanced postures.
This property was recently called "human resting myofascial tone" (HRMT).
The HRMT model evolved from electromyography (EMG) research in the 1950s that showed lumbar muscles usually to be EMG-silent in relaxed gravity-neutral upright postures.
Chronic diseases, such as diabetes, are incurable but they can be controlled.
However, the patient is always facing stressful physical, mental and social factors.
Therefore, he needs to receive different kinds of supports.
The present research aimed to determine the factors of social support in diabetic patients and its relation with the demographic features of the patients.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of two educational methods on students' knowledge and performance regarding first aid at emergency scenes.
Respect to patients' autonomy is a cornerstone of medical ethics and nurses have a key role in respecting patients' autonomy.
The aim of the present study was to compare nurses and patients' perceptions regarding respecting to patients' autonomy during nursing care.
Despite therapeutic effect of hemodialysis in end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients, these patients encounter different physical and psychological tensional factors.
Physical exercises have beneficial physical and psychological effects on patients under hemodialysis as one of the accessory therapeutic methods.
As few studies have been done about the effects of physical exercise on physical and psychological problems in Iran than other countries, we assessed the effect in patients under hemodialysis.
Pain as a main social problem has involved millions of people.
Usually pharmaceutical methods use for treating pain but they have side effects which make them less effective.
Massage is one of the effective ways for reducing pain after surgery.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of massage therapy on pain severity in orthopedic patients.
Currently healthy heart word considered to be the objective of community health applications in many countries of the world because cardiovascular diseases are the most important factor in mortality of humans, worldwide.
Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is one of the most common surgery procedures for these patients.
The purpose of this study is to assess the impact of therapeutic touch on medical vital signs of patients before coronary artery bypass graft surgery.
Interpersonal communication is considered as an important and effective factor of job satisfaction and efficiency and has special significance in nursing career because of the face to face relationship with patients.
This study aimed to determine the association between head nurses' interpersonal communication and job satisfaction of nurses under their supervision.
Infant mortality rate was reported 3.18 in 1000 births in Iran.
Therefore, it is essential to create national care standards for neonatal intensive care units (NICU) in Iran.
Elders more than other age groups are at risk of chronic diseases and health problems; and elderly affects their self-management and makes them feel disabled.
Since the knowledge of self-management for Iranian elderly is not well developed, this paper aimed to determine the concept of self-management for Iranian elders.
Prematurity is the main cause of death in infants under one year of age and is the main reason for neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) hospitalization.
The stressful environment of NICU exposes preterm infants to inappropriate stimuli.
This study aimed to determine and compare the mean heart rate and oxygen saturation of premature infants before and during a designed program in NICU.
One of the factors that are effective on increasing the QOL is the self-care ability.
Review of literature demonstrated a few studies done on different aspects of QOL in ESRD patients under hemodialysis and their relationships with self-care ability in Iran.
Labor pain is one of the most severe pains which has ever evaluated and its fear is one of the reasons women wouldn't go for natural delivery.
Considering different factors which affect experiencing pain, this study aimed to explain women's experiences of pain during childbirth.
Old methods of administrating can't cover the rapid changes of today.
These changes redounded new organizations like learning organizations to be formed.
The purpose of this research was to study the relationship between learning organization and organizational commitment among nursing managers.
Personality traits are major effective factors on student's learning, educational achievements and employer's job satisfaction.
Metacognitive characteristics such as personality are only changeable up to 30% in the best educational condition.
Therefore, students should be evaluated for such characteristics including their personality compatibility with their major.
Burn wounds are one of the health problems in modern societies that are associated with irreparable harms and many side problems for patients and their families.
Infection due to burn wounds is the main cause of death in such patients.
One of the methods to prevent infection of burn wounds is topical antibiotic ointments.
This study aimed to investigate and identify effective ointments to treat burn wounds.
For this purpose, the effects of two types of ointment, fundermol and 1% silver sulfadiazine cream on second degree burn wounds were compared.
Family caregivers are an essential part of health care services for elderly with dementia disorders, because of providing care for such patients is a big burden for their families.
This study aimed to assess the effects of family education program in reducing the burden of families of elderly with dementia.
During the last 3 decades, there were increasing tendency towards angioplasty because of its benefits.
But, this procedure has its acute problems like bleeding and formation of hematoma in the removal place of the sheet.
Recognizing desirable time for bed rest after angioplasty and remove the arterial sheet forms the foundation of related researches in the world.
Getting out of bed soon after angioplasty, causes more comfortable feelings, less hospitalization period, fewer side effects of prolonged bed rest and less hospitalization expenses.
Regarding less time for bed rest after angioplasty, the aim of this study was to assess the effect of the time of getting out of bed after angioplasty on the complications after removing the sheet in coronary angioplasty patients.
Sexual relationship is a basis for mental health and continuity of the healthy generation.
Enjoying the healthy body and mind will cause the sexual relationships to run their normal course in life.
One of the problems that couples are faced within their sexual relationships is the issue of employing family planning methods.
Studies have revealed that contraceptive methods are in connection with the sexual function and health in different ways.
Preeclampsia is caused by multiple factors and finding any factor related to this disorder can help on time prevention of this disease, which reduces the mortality of mothers and infants.
Tea consumption has been known mostly as a well-drink after water in the world.
Tea drink can affect balance of fluids and renal function.
In addition, it can cause loss of many viruses in the stomach and can increase or decrease gastrointestinal movements.
This research was done to determine the effect of tea on increasing enteral feeding tolerance in ICU patients in Alzahra Hospital.
Asthma is the most common chronic disease of childhood and its prevalence is increasing all over the world.
Asthma influences on many aspects of family daily life.
These parents are looking for ways to confront with their stress, to reduce their anxiety in encountering with their asthmatic children, and to improve their performance.
There has always been an asking question with physicians and health staff whether delivery mode can effect on child intelligence.
This study was conducted to compare the intelligence quotient (IQ) of school aged children delivered by cesarean section and vaginal delivery in Mashhad, Iran.
Using blood and blood components is a common therapeutic procedure in hospitals.
Nurses have an important role in a safe blood transfusion.
Therefore, it is crucial for nurses to have sufficient knowledge of situations, amount and methods of using blood components, possible side effects and necessary cares.
One of the common side effects of cancer is fatigue that affects patients' life quality and leads to disability.
Exercise has an important role in improving these patients' life quality and can be used as a complementary treatment.
In the recent decade, due to the overwhelming importance of health and prevention of diseases, nurses, the greatest part of the health care system, are acting in any position of the health care delivery system; because nursing have a key role in promotion of health and health care everywhere.
The objective of this research was to study the desired positions of nursing in the health care delivery system in Iran.
In spite of much literature written about the theory-practice gap in the international nursing journals, there is evidence that indicates this subject has not been probed comprehensively since nursing education was transferred to universities in Iran.
Although this subject has been lamented by some researchers, there is no comprehensive work on how this gap resulted.
Due to the repeated medical follow-ups and the side effects of medical therapies and endometriosis surgeries, many patients tend to use less expensive, nonmedical, and nonaggressive methods.
The present study aimed to assess the effects of massage therapy, one of the aforementioned methods on endometriosis caused dysmenorrhea.
Accidental needle-stick injuries (NSIs) are a hazard for health-care workers and general public health.
Nowadays, problem solving skills, clinical decision making ability and making a proper relationship to clients are essential necessities for nursing graduates; however there are few studies which investigated nursing students' responses to clients with problematic situations based on nursing theories addressing interactions.
The purpose of this study was to analyze the nursing students' immediate responses to distressed clients' behaviors focusing on collaborative Orlando's theory.
Work-family conflict has many negative outcomes for organization and career and family life of each person.
The aim of present study was to determine the relationship between work-family conflict and the level of self-efficacy in female nurses.
Sport specific ergometers are important for laboratory testing (i.e.
peak oxygen consumption (VO(2))) and out of season training.
Athletes often utilize compensatory movement strategies to achieve high performance.
However, these inefficient movement strategies may reinforce poor biomechanical movement patterns during typical activities, resulting in injury.
Many sports involve movements during which the lower extremity functions as a closed kinetic chain, requiring weight-bearing (WB) range of motion (ROM).
Such measurements represent ROM in a non-weight bearing (NWB) position, and, as a result, may not appropriately assess the capacity of the joint to meet the demands of the athlete's sport.
There is no consensus among the existing published evidence as to whether closed kinetic chain (CKC) or open kinetic chain (OKC) exercises should be the intervention of choice following an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury or reconstruction.
The commonly held belief has been that OKC exercises cause increased strain on the ACL as well as increased joint laxity and anterior tibial translation.
Ankle sprains often result in chronic instability and dysfunction.
Several clinical tests assess postural deficits as a potential cause of this dysfunction; however, limited information exists pertaining to the relationship that these tests have with one another.
There have been only a few case reports in the literature mentioning sciatic nerve injury following a hamstring tear.
In previous cases surgical intervention was performed to debride scar tissue around the sciatic nerve with the goal of full return to function for the patient.
In recent times, many herbal remedies are used to treat variety of ailments.
The leaves of Vitex grandifolia is claimed to be effective in the treatment of diabetes mellitus and as a diuretic in the treatment of high blood pressure.
However, there are no scientific reports on the therapeutic benefits or toxicity of this plant.
Rhizophora mangle (L.) produce a variety of substances that possesses pharmacological actions.
Although it shown antioxidant properties in some assays, there is no available information about its effect on some free radical species.
So the objective of the present research is to evaluate the DPPH radical and superoxide anion scavenging properties of R. mangle extract and its polyphenol fraction.
Rhizomes of Alpinia calcarata Roscoe (Family: Zingiberaceae) possess several bioactivities and are used in the traditional medicinal systems of Sri Lanka.
Litsea glitinosa is an evergreen tree of medium size which grows to a height of about 20 to 30 feet.
It belongs to family Lauraceae.
In India it is found mainly in North Eastern region.
To further warrant such testing, research evidence for medicinal applications of these plants (or of their major phytochemical constituents and metabolic derivatives) is typically analyzed in biomedical databases.
Chonemorpha grandiflora (Syn.
Chonemorpha fragrans (Apocynaceae) is an endangered medicinal plant.
It is used in different preparations, such as sudarsanasavam and kumaryasavam used in Kerala Ayurvedic system.
C. grandiflora is used for the treatment of fever and stomach disorders.
Phytochemical investigations have revealed the presence of steroidal alkaloids, such as chonemorphine and funtumafrine in C. grandiflora.
Camptothecin, a well-known anticancer alkaloid has been detected in ethanolic extracts of stem with bark and callus cultures derived from C. grandiflora.
Extensive researches are going on to explore the effective and safe drug for their hair growth.
Tobacco leaves are traditionally known to potentiate hair growth promotion.
Therefore, the aim of present study was to formulate and evaluate the microbial biotransformed extract of tobacco leaves for hair growth potential in male albino wister rats.
Floating tablets prolong the gastric residence time of drugs, improve bioavailability, and facilitate local drug delivery to the stomach.
With this objective, floating tablets containing aqueous extract of liquorice as drug was prepared for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori and gastric ulcers.
Madhunashini (Gymnema sylvestre R.
Br.)
commonly known as 'Gudmar' in Hindi is an important medicinal climber and extensively used in almost all Indian System of Medicine as a remedy for diabetes, rheumatism, cough, ulcer, jaundice, dyspepsia, constipation, eyes pain and also in snakebite.
In India, it is found growing in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharastra, Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
The major phytoconstituents are gymnemic acids, gudmarin and saponins.
The aim is to study the anti-inflammatory effect of the ethanolic extract of the leaves of Psidium guajava(PGE) on experimental animal models.
Although the formulations of the Unani system of medicine are popular, not much scientific work has been reported so far.
The present article is an attempt to establish the scientific basis of one of the popular Unani formulations Safoof-ESana, a polyherbal formulation widely used as a laxative.
Overweight and obesity among children and adolescents continue to be a global public health epidemic.
Current national data on childhood and adolescent obesity show alarming statistics of overweight and obese children and adolescents.
This epidemic runs across various continents and affects various ethnic populations.
The purpose of this current review is to focus on pharmacological therapy i.e.
role of sibutramine and orlistat in childhood and adolescent weight management.
All of these articles have been summarized in the current review.
Sibutramine functions by promoting satiety and increases energy expenditure by inhibiting reuptake of noradrenaline and serotonin.
Most of the studies, reviews and trials conducted using sibutramine among adolescents and children show limited short-term efficacy.
Orlistat was approved by Food and Drug Administration for adolescent weight reduction.
Despite its approval, it has a limited role in adolescent and pediatric obesity reduction due to the purported malabsorption of fat soluble vitamins and its side-effect profile.
Obesity and adolescent weight management in present times mainly deals with dietary modification with superadded behavioral therapies promoting exercise.
There is insufficient evidence as of now if these alone would cause adequate weight reduction and weight maintenance.
Pharmacotherapy i.e use of drugs like sibutramine and orlistat has a limited role in the current fight against childhood and adolescent obesity.
Extreme side-effects, close monitoring and lack of long-term studies involving these drugs, suggest questionable efficacy in current times.
Future research studies involving pharmacological agents need to not only have immense scientific rigor during preliminary analyses but should also translate their efficacy in practical and clinical settings.
Obesity; Overweight; Adolescents; Pharmacological; sibutramine; Orlistat.
The aim of this study was to assess the implementation, in an urban area of Northern Italy, of the 1998 law about 10 years after its entry into force.
Anti-Toxoplasma antibodies; Congenital infection; Pregnancy trimester; Toxoplasma screening; Seroconversion; Seronegative women; Seropositive women; Screening protocol.
In India, tuberculosis is an endemic disease.
Delay in diagnosis results in poor prognosis and fast spread of the disease.
The objective of the present study is to look for an effective and acceptable diagnostic test, which may be helpful to initiate early treatment to improve prognosis and reduce spread.
Adenosine deaminase; Serosal effusion; Tubercular; Non-tubercular; Pulmonary; Extra-pulmonary.
This study was designed to evaluate transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) as a treatment for neck pain due to musculoskeletal disorders within the context of a physiotherapy treatment.
Musculoskeletal disorders; Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation; Neck pain.
Prostate adenocarcinomas present a high risk of metastasis.
We report a case of an atypical prostate cancer metastasis.
Several months later, there was a re-increase of the PSA rate.
The CT scan showed a radiation proctitis aspect.
An intermittent hormonotherapy was decided.
Six months later, he presented abdominal pain.
Examinations were performed and showed a rectal carcinosarcoma with prostate origins.
A surgical management was realised.
The outcomes were an early recurrence.
A symptomatic treatment was decided.
There are not any rectal localisations reported in the literature.
Only loco-regional invasions of the rectum are described and no histological modification of metastasis compared to the primitive tumor has been reported.
So, we report a metastasis of a prostate adenocarcinoma which transformed into a carcinosarcoma.
Adenocarcinoma; Carcinosarcoma; Metastasis; Prostate; Rectal neoplasm.
At an urgent laparotomy the stomach was repositioned and the spleen removed.
The patient recovered fully.
The possible mechanism of this severe complication is discussed and relevant literature reviewed.
Aortoduodenal fistula; Complication; Intrathoracic stomach; Intrathoracic spleen.
Myositis ossificans circumscripta is a form of heterotopic ossification that is benign in nature associated to a trauma, but may appear clinically and radiologically as a malignant neoplasm.
We discuss some of the difficulties of diagnosis and histological evolution of the lesion.
Myositis ossificans; Thigh; Differential diagnosis; Nontraumatic.
Although leptospirosis presents with a mild icteric form in nearly 90% of cases, it can lead to Weils disease characterized by fever as well as fulminant hepatorenal and respiratory failure, in approximately 5 - 10% of cases.
In this case report, we present a patient with Weil's disease, complicated with multiorgan failure.
Weils disease; Leptospirosis; Multiorgan failure.
Adenomyomatosis of the gallbladder (adenomyomas or adenomyomatous hyperplasia) is relatively uncommon tumor or tumor-like lesions that are found in 2%5% of all cholecystectomies.
They may involve in the fundal localization as a second frequency and have a predilection for the middle and elderly-aged women.
Adenomyomas are histologically characterized by epithelial proliferation and muscular hyperplasia of the gallbladder.
The chronic irritation is mostly aetiological factor and rarely has malignant potential.
Gallbladder; Adenomyomatosis; Fundal variant.
Melanomas are malignant lesions stemming from the disorganized proliferation of melanocytes.
This condition is more common on skin, but may also be detected in mucosa, such as in the oral cavity.
Melanoma; Skin; Mouth; Diagnosis.
There are fewer data on long-term safety with extended hormonal supplementation.
Safety; Testosterone; Growth hormone; Supplementation.
Previous studies suggest adults gain extra weight during the holiday season, however, few studies have been done with children during this time.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate gains in growth among elementary children, and compare differences by gender and weight status.
Holiday weight gain; Childhood obesity.
Organic foreign bodies swell when irrigated with water, potentially making extraction more difficult.
Foreign body; Irrigation; Organic; Ear; Hydroscopic; Procedure; Removal.
Rectal prolapse (RP) is a rare condition characterized by rectums protrusion through the anus with all of its layers.
Although more than 100 surgical procedures were described so far for the treatment of RP, the ideal treatment method still remains unclear.
Rectal prolapse; Rectopexy; Modified Notoras technique.
Most cases occur in the abdomen and the thoracic location is a comparatively rare finding.
In thoracic splenosis the splenic tissue most often grows in the form of a nodule and the autotransplantation is usually caused by a previous operation and/or most commonly a penetrating or blunt trauma to the thoracoabdominal region, resulting in splenic rupture and in some cases left diaphragmatic tear.
In this case report we will briefly discuss the current updates in the literature regarding thoracic splenosis, and highlight the fact that the findings raise the suspicion of malignancy requiring numerous investigations yet early recognition of thoracic splenosis can prevent unnecessary tests and procedures.
Preoperative diagnosis of splenosis should be made with the use of nuclear imaging studies such as the (99m)Tc heat-damaged erythrocyte study rather than computed tomography-guided biopsy or invasive surgery.
Thoracic splenosis; Computed tomography; Ppancreatectomy; Splenectomy; Gastrorrhaphy.
Mammography study showed a spiculated lesion in the lower inner quadrant with suspicion of malignancy.
Subsequent tumorectomy revealed a poorly-defined indurated lesion of 1.1 x 0.7 cm.
The histopathology study showed a proliferation of cells with ample and granular cytoplasm that were positive for S100, CD 68 and inhibin and negative for hormonal receptors.
We present a benign lesion that clinically reproduces a breast carcinoma.
Granular cell tumor; Breast; Differential diagnosis; Cutaneous.
Wegeners Granulomatosis is a condition associated with systemic vasculitis which can present with upper respiratory tract symptoms initially.
She later developed joint pains and worsening renal status requiring dialysis.
A renal biopsy was performed which showed pauci-immune cresentric glomerulonephritis.
Her cANCA levels were positive.
Wegener granulomatosis; Young girl; Cyclophophamide; cANCA.
Wilms tumor is rare in adults.
Though the approach to diagnosis and treatment of adult Wilms tumor (AWT) is closely modeled on recommendations for childhood Wilms tumor, views differ on how aggressive the treatment should be.
We report a case of a 37-year-old with Stage III favorable histology AWT.
A radical nephrectomy was performed and the patient was due for chemotherapy.
Recent advances, controversies and current recommendations in the treatment of AWT are discussed.
Adult; Wilms tumor; Kidney.
Transthoracic echocardiography showed chordal rupture and free mitral regurgitation, resulting in an emergency mitral valve repair.
The surgical procedure was largely uneventful but subsequent clinical course on the intensive care unit was complicated by bowel perforation requiring two laparatomies for a colonic resection and loop ileostomy formation.
Histology of the excised tissue demonstrated absent musculature with no evidence of ischemia.
Spontaneous non-ischemic bowel perforation as a complication of osteogenesis imperfecta is to date unreported.
Osteogenesis imperfecta; Bowel perforation; Collagen; Non-ischemic; Connective tissue disorders; Pathogenesis; Collagen vascular disorder; Acute abdomen.
Diabetes Mellitus (DM) is a rampantly growing epidemic in the United States, affecting nearly 10% of the adult population.
Studies have shown that higher levels of Total Bilirubin (TBili) convey a protective effect with regard to cardiovascular risk.
Bilirubin; Diabetes; Antioxidant; Protective.
Endometrial cancer is one of the most common types of gynecologic cancers.
The goal of this study was to investigate the ability of exercise to prevent increased levels of endometrial cancer biomarkers, estrogen receptor (ER) and p16, and endometrial hyperplasia associated with diabetes.
Diabetes; Estrogen receptor alpha; P16; Endometrial hyperplasia; Endometrial cancer; Exercise.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are used for the treatment and prophylaxis of variety of acid peptic conditions including stress ulcers.
There has been a persistent practice of their inappropriate use for stress ulcer prophylaxis.
Purpose of our study was to measure the inappropriate use of Intravenous Proton Pump Inhibitors for stress ulcer prophylaxis and to estimate the financial burden.
Inappropriate use of PPI; Stress ulcer prophylaxis; Healthcare cost.
Tuberculosis kills five lakh patients in India every year, out of which 7-12 % are with meningeal involvement.
Delay in its diagnosis and in initiation of treatment results in poor prognosis and sequlae in up to 25% of cases.
The aim of the present study is to look for a simple, rapid, cost effective, non-invasive and fairly specific test in differentiating tubercular etiology from other causes.
Cerebrospinal fluid; Adenosine deaminase; Tuberculous meningitis.
Chronic NSAID use can cause diaphragm like strictures within the bowel leading to intestinal obstruction.
This rare entity is called diaphragm disease.
Preoperative diagnosis is extremely difficult.
NSAID related injury should be considered in patient with intestinal obstruction of unclear etiology.
Histopathology showed mucosal ulceration, inflammation and focal sub mucosal fibrosis consistent with diaphragm disease.
Patient recovered well in the post operative period.
NSAIDS; Acute Intestinal Obstruction; Diaphragm Disease.
A case of hypereosinophilia is presented.
The case illustrates the complexity of the diagnostic processes in certain conditions like hypereosinophilia.
Hypereosinophilia; Myocarditis; Stroke.
Histologically, the excised lesion showed features of apocrine fibroadenoma.
In addition, the lesion had both glandular and stromal growth patterns and active chronic inflammation in the background.
Malignant or benign counterparts of these types of lesions are widely described in literature.
However fistula does not usually accompany and is very rare.
Therefore, it is crucial for the pathologists and clinicians to be aware of such lesions.
The relationship between apocrine fibroadenoma and perianal region was also discussed.
Apocrin fibroadenoma; Perianal region; Fistula.
Treating geriatric patients can be difficult.
An oncology evaluation determined that he was not a candidate for aggressive treatment.
There is no evidence of curative treatment for mantle cell lymphoma.
To complicate the decision making process further, the patients primary caregiver requested specifically that the health care team withholds the diagnosis from the patient.
We discuss the inherent difficulties associated with end-of-life care.
Geriatrics; End-of-life care; Mantle cell lymphoma; Hispanic.
Cross-talks between signaling cascades is a likely phenomenon that can cause apparently different biological responses from a single pathway, on its activation.
Based on enzyme kinetic reactions, mathematical models have been developed to predict and analyze the impacts of cross-talks and feedback loops in ERK5 and JNK cascades.
It has been observed that, there is no significant impact on neither ERK5 activation nor JNKs' activation due to cross-talks between them.
But it is due to cross-talks and feedback loops in ERK5 and JNK cascade, ERK5 gets activated in a transient manner in the absence of input signals.
Planning to obtain the parameter values from the experimentalist and the result should be validated by experimental verification.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11693-010-9061-4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Aim of this systematic review was to assess the orthodontic related issues which currently provide the best evidence as documented by meta-analyses, by critically evaluating and discussing the methodology used in these studies.
Saliva tests that detect antibodies are used to diagnose HIV infection.
The goal of this study was to determine whether saliva could be used for nucleic acid-based tests to measure HIV-1 virus load (VL) and detect drug resistance.
In male, lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) have been associated, beside benign prostatic hyperplasia, to some unexpected comorbidities (hypogonadism, obesity, metabolic syndrome), which are essentially characterized by an unbalance between circulating androgens/estrogens.
Within the bladder, LUTS are linked to RhoA/Rho-kinase (ROCK) pathway overactivity.
The role of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors in the treatment of post-radiotherapy erectile dysfunction (ED) has not been extensively investigated.
Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) is a common pediatric hip disorder.
Avascular necrosis (AVN) of the femoral head is a devastating complication of SCFE.
The between-observer reliability of repeated anatomic assessments in pediatric orthopedics relies on the precise definition of bony landmarks for measuring angles, indexes, and lengths of joints, limbs, and spine.
We have analyzed intra- and interobserver reliability with a new digital measurement system (TraumaCad Wizard).
There has been considerable interest in this topic recently.
The research design to choose, when developing a study protocol that investigates the effect of treatment subgroups, depends on the particular research question.
The McKenzie management strategy of mechanical diagnosis and therapy (MDT) is commonly used for the assessment and management of spinal problems.
Within this system, 'derangement syndrome' is the most common classification, for which the conceptual model is an intra-discal displacement.
However, the reduction of an intra-discal displacement by MDT has never been documented.
The purpose of this study was to compare, using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the nucleus pulposus (NP) profiles before and after the use of this approach.
Obesity and overweight in children are an escalating problem in Canada and worldwide.
Currently, little is known about the manner in which primary health care providers are responding to Canada's obesity epidemic.
Otitis media is the main reason young children receive antibiotics and is the leading reason for physician visits.
In order to understand how intracellular perturbations occur due to inhibition of essential metabolic pathways, we have built, through the use of ordinary differential equations, a mathematical model of 8 major Escherichia coli pathways.
Although residency programs must prepare physicians who can analyze and improve their practice, practice improvement (PI) is new for many faculty preceptors.
We describe the pilot of a PI curriculum incorporating a practice improvement module (PIM) from the American Board of Internal Medicine for residents and their faculty preceptors.
Cultural competency is an important part of medical policy and practice, yet the evidence base for the effectiveness of training in this area is weak.
Given that cultural competency is a critical aspect of "professionalism" and "interpersonal and communication skills," such a tool would aid in assessing the impact of such training in residency programs.
The SEGUE (Set the stage, Elicit information, Give information, Understand the patient's perspective, and End the encounter) Framework is a checklist-style rating scale to facilitate the teaching and assessment of communication skills in medical learners.
It has been used for over 15years, and it is recommended in the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education toolbox of assessment methods for resident training.
When it was developed, its ability to provide objective scoring was a substantial improvement over global ratings.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education promotes direct observation of residents as a key assessment tool for competency in patient care, professionalism, and communication skills.
Although tools exist, validity and reliability have not been demonstrated for most, and many tools may have limited feasibility because of time constraints and other reasons.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requires fellows in many specialties to demonstrate attainment of 6 core competencies, yet relatively few validated assessment tools currently exist.
We present our initial experience with the design and implementation of a standardized patient (SP) exercise during gastroenterology fellowship that facilitates appraisal of all core clinical competencies.
Residency programs strive to accurately assess applicants' qualifications and predict future performance.
However, there is little evidence-based guidance on how to do this.
The aim of this study was to design an algorithm for ranking applicants to an internal medicine residency program.
Beginning a graduate medical education training program is associated with a steep learning curve for incoming residents.
The KEECC-A was used by residents, standardized patients, and faculty as the assessment tool in a broader institutional curriculum initiative.
Despite significant policy concerns about the role of inpatient resource utilization on rising medical costs, little information is provided to residents regarding their practice patterns and the effect on resource use.
Improved knowledge about their practice patterns and costs might reduce resource utilization and better prepare physicians for today's health care market.
The financial success of academic medical centers depends largely on appropriate billing for resident-patient encounters.
Objectives of this study were to develop an instrument for billing in internal medicine resident clinics, to compare billing practices among junior versus senior residents, and to estimate financial losses from inappropriate resident billing.
Residency program directors rely on an informal network of faculty mentors to provide guidance for residents.
Faced with increasingly sophisticated competency-based evaluation systems and scrutiny of patient safety and resident well-being in today's environment, residency programs need more structured mechanisms for mentoring.
Studies have shown that a large portion of patient satisfaction is related to physician care, especially when the patient can identify the role of the physician on the team.
Surveys evaluating resident physicians would help to improve patient satisfaction but are not currently implemented at most medical institutions.
The benefits of mentoring residents have been studied, but there is no research about mentoring new program directors.
Program directors' responsibilities have become increasingly complicated, and they may not be adequately prepared for their role at the time of appointment without the benefit of mentoring that is specific to their new role.
The purpose of this study is to identify perceived barriers to mental health treatment among depressed training physicians.
Over the past decade, regulatory bodies have heightened their emphasis on health care quality and safety.
Education of physicians is a priority in this effort, with the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requiring that trainees attain competence in practice-based learning and improvement and systems-based practice.
To date, several studies about the use of resident education related to quality and safety have been published, but no comprehensive interdisciplinary curricula seem to exist.
Effective, formal, comprehensive cross-disciplinary resident training in quality and patient safety appear to be a vital need.
Residency is a critical transition during which individuals acquire lifelong behaviors important for professionalism and optimal patient care.
One behavior is proper hand hygiene (HH), yet poor compliance with accepted HH practices remains a critical issue in many settings.
Physical exam skills of medical trainees are declining, but most residencies do not offer systematic clinical skills teaching or assessment.
Most internal medicine residency programs use a night float system to comply with resident duty hour limits.
Night float assignments often comprise 7 to 10weeks of scheduled clinical time during training.
A comprehensive evaluation and remediation program is an essential component of any residency program.
Elements of a proactive remediation program include a process for outlining deficiencies, providing resources for improvement, communicating clear goals for acceptable performance, and reevaluating performance against these goals.
We designed a survey and assessment tool to address the competency as it pertains to anesthetic drug costs in an academic center.
Physicians report they feel ill-prepared to manage chronic noncancer pain (CNCP), in part because of inadequate training.
Published studies and clinical observation demonstrate that trainees lack confidence and reflect negative attitudes about CNCP.
Overall, there is minimal published guidance on specific specialty roles and responsibilities in CNCP management.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education has mandated multisource feedback (MSF) in the ambulatory setting for internal medicine residents.
Few published reports demonstrate actual MSF results for a residency class, and fewer still include clinical quality measures and knowledge-based testing performance in the data set.
Education about advance directives typically is incorporated into medical school curricula and is not commonly offered in residency.
Residents' experiences with advance directives are generally random, nonstandardized, and difficult to assess.
A pilot study examining residents' attitudes and experiences regarding advance directives was carried out at 2 medical schools.
The past decade has seen a proliferation of leadership training programs for physicians that teach skills outside the graduate medical education curriculum.
To date, no studies have explored why some teaching hospitals and health systems appear to offer a more fertile environment for innovation and improvement in the learning environment.
The purpose of the study was to evaluate the extent and nature of out-of-match residency offers.
Medical students rank residency programs as part of the selection process in the National Resident Matching Program, also known as the match.
Applicants to medical residency positions are protected against discriminatory employment practices by federal employment laws.
Medical students' choice of residency specialty is based in part on their clerkship experience.
Postclerkship interest in a particular specialty is associated with the students' choice to pursue a career in that field.
In this paper, we describe our experience implementing the first chief residency program in Singapore.
The pilot used the US model for CR training as the initial framework.
CRs would assist in the orientation and integration of new residents, teach residents, promote camaraderie among residents, help resolve issues, function as a liaison to senior staff, and would be developed as potential health care leaders and physician role models.
Factors impacting medical student specialty career choice are poorly understood, but may include income potential and lifestyle features such as limited and predictable work hours.
This program was established to prepare residents to more safely transition to the role of independent practitioner.
Physician workforce projections by the Institute of Medicine require enhanced training in geriatrics for all primary care and subspecialty physicians.
The objectives of this study were to (1) define essential geriatrics competencies common to internal medicine and family medicine residents that build on established national geriatrics competencies for medical students, are feasible within current residency programs, are assessable, and address the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education competencies; and (2) involve key stakeholder organizations in their development and implementation.
Under the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Outcome Project, residency programs are required to provide data on educational outcomes and evidence for how this information is used to improve resident education.
Other fields requiring high reliability have used Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) to prioritize quality and safety improvement efforts.
Few studies have used emergency simulation scenarios as an outcome measure to identify training deficiencies within residency programs.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) and the American Board of Pediatrics (ABP) have partnered to initiate the Pediatrics Milestone Project to further refine the 6 ACGME competencies and to set performance standards as part of the continued commitment to document outcomes of training and program effectiveness.
Faculty have traditionally evaluated resident physician professionalism and interpersonal skills without input from patients, family members, nurses, or the residents themselves.
Surgical competence requires both cognitive and technical skills.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) program requirements mandate "adequate supervision," of residents, but there is little guidance for sports medicine fellowship directors regarding the transition from direct to indirect supervision of fellows covering football games.
Resident interest in global health care training is growing and has been shown to have a positive effect on participants' clinical skills and cultural competency.
In addition, it is associated with career choices in primary care, public health, and in the service of underserved populations.
The purpose of this study was to explore, through reflective practice, how participation in a formal global health training program influences pediatric residents' perspectives when caring for diverse patient populations.
The current system of residency training focuses on the hospital setting, and resident exposure to the surrounding community is often limited.
However, community interaction can play an important role in ambulatory training and in learning systems-based practice, a residency core competency.
The provision of high-quality clinical care is critical to the mission of academic and nonacademic clinical settings and is of foremost importance to academic and nonacademic physicians.
Concern has been increasingly raised that the rewards systems at most academic institutions may discourage those with a passion for clinical care over research or teaching from staying in academia.
The link between bone mass and body composition is widely recognized, but the mechanism remains unclear.
The hair of the children tested showed high values for Ba, Cd, Mn, Pb and U, signifying long-term exposure.
Urine baseline testing supported hair analysis findings for all the elements listed above; a DMSA (Dimercapto Succinic Acid) challenge test raised urinary values for lead.
To support or refute that hair mineral analysis confirms urine challenge test results.
To support or refute that a DMSA urine challenge test provides a valuable treatment option for metal exposure in children.
Gene-environmental interactions in the pathway of folate metabolism influence greatly the embryonic development.
Therefore, we studied the frequencies of the MTHFR 677CT and 1298AC mutations in a female general population from Iranian Azeri Turkish.
Babies are usually identified at birth and the diagnosis is confirmed with genetic testing.
After acute myocardial infarction (AMI), left ventricular (LV) function is a well-established prognostic marker.
Recent studies indicate that serum levels of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) also represent an prognostic marker in this setting but so far without a precise cut-off value.
The etiology of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is specific to each region, as proved by numerous studies conducted so far.
Knowledge of these data is essential in developing guidelines for antibiotic prescription.
Unusual bacterial etiologies may increase the risk of mortality.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents the fifth most common cancer worldwide, while being the third leading cause of death by cancer.
The primary risk factor for HCC seems to be liver cirrhosis.
They may become infected themselves; their children may suffer prolonged illness and incapacity, and need the elderly to look after them; the same children may then die from the illness, leaving the elderly without the support of the next generation; this bereavement also leaves the older people to meet funeral costs and then to take care of orphans left behind.
HIV has impacts on old people in ways that are social, economic, psychological and physical in nature.
Variations of the long extensor tendon to the thumb are very rare.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11552-010-9275-7) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
We identified 531 and 616 putative HIF-1 target sites by ChIP-Seq in the cancerous cell line DLD-1 and the non-cancerous cell line TIG-3, respectively.
We also examined the positions and expression levels of transcriptional start sites (TSSs) in these cell lines using our TSS-Seq method.
We observed that 121 and 48 genes in DLD-1 and TIG-3 cells, respectively, had HIF-1 binding sites in proximal regions of the previously reported TSSs that were up-regulated at the transcriptional level.
In addition, 193 and 123 of the HIF-1 target sites, respectively, were located in proximal regions of previously uncharacterized TSSs, namely, TSSs of putative alternative promoters of protein-coding genes or promoters of putative non-protein-coding transcripts.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11568-011-9150-9) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Lymphoepithelial cysts are rare pancreatic lesions of undetermined pathogenesis.
The literature on this entity is limited to case reports or small series.
We describe a case of 66year male, incidentally diagnosed as lymphoepithelial cyst of pancreas that was managed by enucleation.
This is the first case report of lymphoepithelial cyst from India.
An extensive Medline search was carried out for lymphoepithelial cyst of pancreas.
Till date less than 100 cases were identified in available literature.
All these cases (including our case) were analyzed.
This entity has uniform and distinctive clinicopathological features.
Majority of patients presents with non-specific symptoms making preoperative diagnosis difficult.
Lymphoepithelial cyst of the pancreas is a rare benign lesion, which is difficult to diagnose preoperatively.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12262-010-0152-y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Between 2005 and 2007, 24 patients underwent PPG and 30 underwent DG.
Subjective global assessment, objective data assessment, and endoscopic findings of the remnant stomach were compared between the two groups.
Two years after surgery, the patients' body weights recovered to 97% in PPG, but they continued to decrease in DG.
Postoperative blood lymphocyte counts remained low in DG, but recovered to preoperative levels 6months after surgery in PPG.
Food residue in the gastric remnant was frequently observed in PPG (71.4%) than in DG (15.8%, P=0.001).
In nutritional aspect, PPG may be a more ideal operation than DG.
However, food residue in the gastric remnant should be considered in PPG.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12262-010-0167-4) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Residency program directors have increasingly challenging roles, but they may not be receiving adequate leadership development.
The morbidity and mortality conference is an educational tradition in American medicine that dates to the early 20th century.
Traditionally, this conference has focused entirely on issues of diagnosis and treatment, in the context of a disappointing clinical outcome.
Residency programs desire assessment tools for teaching and measuring resident attainment of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education competencies, including interpersonal and communication skills.
The Association of American Medical Colleges and the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education recognize simulation as a tool for deliberate practice and standardized assessment of procedural performance.
Few residency programs have centralized resources for career planning.
As a consequence, little is known about residents' informational needs regarding career planning.
Prior studies of resident experience in gynecology looked only at the year before and after adoption of ACGME duty hour standards.
This study sought to determine whether procedure volume differed after completion of a 4-year residency training program, before and after work hour reform.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) has announced revisions to the resident duty hour standards in light of a 2008 Institute of Medicine report that recommended further limits.
Soliciting resident input regarding the future of duty hours is critical to ensure trainee buy-in.
Procedural skill is predicated on knowledge.
We used a previously validated test to evaluate the impact of a web-based education program on medical residents' knowledge of 2 advanced medical procedures.
Current training practices and teaching methods for critical care medicine education during internal medicine residency have not been well described.
Lifelong learning is an integral component of practice-based learning and improvement.
Physicians need to be lifelong learners to provide timely, efficient, and state-of-the-art patient care in an environment where knowledge, technology, and social requirements are rapidly changing.
Use of resident case logs has been considered by the Residency Review Committee for Neurology of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
An important expectation of pediatric education is assessing, resuscitating, and stabilizing ill or injured children.
Innovation is important for the development and advancement of any medical specialty.
Risk management is an important aspect of education for all residents.
Unfortunately, few curricula currently exist to fulfill this educational need.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requires residency programs to teach 6 core competencies and to provide evidence of effective standardized training through objective measures.
In this program, we aimed to pilot the Relationship Express model, a series of exercises in experiential learning to teach anesthesiology residents to build effective relationships with patients in time-limited circumstances.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) mandates that sponsoring institutions conduct internal reviews.
In 1998, the ACGME Institutional Review Committee gave Duke University Hospital a citation for an inadequate internal review (IR) process.
Since then, we have instituted several iterative changes.
We describe the evolution of Duke University Hospital's current internal review process.
Reflective practice may help physicians identify and connect with what they value and find meaningful in their work.
We aimed to assess the feasibility of designing and implementing a writing workshop series within an obstetrics and gynecology curriculum.
We examined trends in the percent of graduates pursuing additional clinical education following graduation from ACGME-accredited pipeline specialty programs (specialties leading to initial board certification).
Residency programs accredited by the ACGME are required to teach core competencies, including systems-based practice (SBP).
The responsibilities of anesthesiologists include the coordination of patient flow in the surgical suite.
Familiarity with this topic is crucial for many improvement projects.
We suggest that institutional internal reviews be implemented to ensure that the ACGME institutional requirements for graduate medical education are met.
This process represents practice-based learning and improvement at the institutional level and may prevent other institutions from receiving unfavorable accreditation decisions.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) recommends resident portfolios as 1 method for assessing competence in practice-based learning and improvement.
Intensive education efforts addressing the goals and importance of portfolios were undertaken.
We hypothesized that these educational efforts improved acceptance of the portfolio and retrospectively audited the portfolio evaluation forms completed by faculty advisors.
In 1999, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Outcome Project began to focus on resident performance in the 6 competencies of patient care, medical knowledge, professionalism, practice-based learning and improvement, interpersonal communication skills, and professionalism.
Beginning in 2007, the ACGME began collecting information on how programs assess these competencies.
This report provides information on the nature and extent of those assessments.
: Previous investigations have shown an increased risk of mesh erosion when concomitant vaginal hysterectomy is performed at the time of transvaginal reconstruction with mesh.
: Abdominoperineal resection is a surgical technique used to treat a variety of colorectal diseases.
Although there are several published studies describing long-term pelvic floor functioning in women who have undergone this procedure, little is known specifically about gynecologic problems that may develop after surgery.
The emergence of validated means to determine which individuals will develop post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) following a traumatic event has raised the possibility of designing and implementing effective screening programmes following traumatic events.
This problem is compounded by the fact that habituation and cognitive restructuring - the main mechanisms through which PE is hypothesized to work - are not instantaneous processes, and often require several weeks before the distress associated with imaginal exposure abates.
Segmental duplications, or low-copy repeats, are common in mammalian genomes.
In the human genome, most segmental duplications are mosaics comprised of multiple duplicated fragments.
One model proposed to explain this mosaic patterns is a model of repeated aggregation and subsequent duplication of genomic sequences.
The aim of the current study was to assess the reliability and validity of the Greek translation of the Short Anxiety Screening Test (SAST), for use in primary care settings.
Morinda citrifolia (Noni) is an edible plant with wide range of medicinal uses.
It occurs exclusively in tropical climate zone from India through Southeast Asia and Australia to Eastern Polynesia and Hawaii.
The objective of this study was to explore the possible mode(s) of action for its antispasmodic, vasodilator and cardio-suppressant effects to rationalize its medicinal use in gut and cardiovascular disorders.
In a genome-wide association scan, the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs738409 in the patatin-like phospholipase 3 gene (PNPLA3) was strongly associated with increased liver fat content.
We investigated whether this SNP is associated with the occurrence and progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in the Japanese population.
Electron linear accelerators in medical radiotherapy have replaced cobalt and caesium sources of radiation.
However, medical accelerators with photon energies over 10 MeV generate undesired fast neutron contamination in a therapeutic X-ray photon beam.
Photons with energies above 10 MeV can interact with the atomic nucleus of a high-Z material, of which the target and the head of an accelerator consist, and lead to the neutron ejection.
Given the critical role of tumor vasculature in tumor development, considerable efforts have been spent on developing therapeutic strategies targeting the tumor vascular network.
A variety of agents have been developed, with two general approaches being pursued.
Antiangiogenic agents (AAs) aim to interfere with the process of angiogenesis, preventing new tumor blood vessel formation.
Vascular-disrupting agents (VDAs) target existing tumor vessels causing tumor ischemia and necrosis.
Radiotherapy is a widely used treatment modality for cancer with its distinct therapeutic challenges.
Thus, combining the two approaches seems reasonable.
Patients suffering from malignancies have increased complications due to corresponding cardiovascular diseases and risk factor for the development of venous thromboembolism.
Epidemiological studies have shown that increased homocysteine plasma concentration (hyperhomocysteinemia) is related to a higher risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease and malignancies.
The plasma homocysteine levels are strongly influenced by diet, as well as by genetic factors.
Folic acid, vitamins B6 and B12 are dietary components which influence the plasma homocysteine levels the most.
Several studies have found that high blood levels of B vitamins are related to the integrity and function of DNA, and, are at least related to lower concentration of homocysteine.
Folate depletion has been found to change DNA methylation and DNA synthesis in both animal and human studies.
Because of this critical role of folate, most studies including homocysteine have focused on these two actions.
Most of the presently used percutaneous arterial closure devices (PACD) for hemostasis after interventional vascular procedures are effective, but carry risk of complications by deposition of a foreign body.
A new promising externally applied PACD - chitosan-based HemCon Bandage (HCB) was explored in sheep.
The HCB hemostatic efficacy and complications occurring with its use were compared to those with the standard manual compression (SMC).
3T high-field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanners have recently become available for the clinical use and are being increasingly applied in the field of whole-body imaging and chest imaging as well.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic potential of 3 T MRI as a complementary imaging modality to CT in detecting the pathological changes of asbestos-related thoracic diseases.
Priapism, persistent erection without arousal, can be classified into low-flow (venous or ischemic) and high-flow (arterial or non-ischemic).
Meningiomas are intracranial brain tumours that frequently recur.
The most important prognostic factors for meningioma recurrence are meningioma grade, meningioma invasiveness and radicality of neurosurgical resection.
Penile metastases are rare and usually secondary to genitourinary and colorectal cancer.
The purpose of this study is to implement an electronic method to perform and analyze intensity-modulated radiation therapy quality assurance (IMRT QA) using an aSi megavoltage electronic portal imaging device in a network comprised of independent treatment planning, record and verify (R&amp;V), and delivery systems.
In practice, the guidelines across countries and regions differ and are influenced by different health care policies, resource availability and doubts about effectiveness of follow-up.
One of the major challenges in cancer therapy is to improve early detection and prevention using novel targeted cancer diagnostics.
Detection requests specific recognition.
Tumor markers have to be ideally present on the surface of cancer cells.
Their targeting with ligands coupled to imaging agents make them visible/detectable.
Swine are commonly used as a model to study congenital cardiovascular defects that occur in humans and these models have been both spontaneous and experimentally induced.
Ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, and atrial septal defect (ASD) are examples of experimentally induced models.
Absence of caudal/inferior vena cava (CVC/IVC) with azygos/hemiazygos continuation is an uncommon vascular anomaly.
Coronary stenting is the primary means of coronary revascularization.
There are two basic techniques of stent implantation: stenting with balloon predilatation of stenosis and stenting without predilatation (direct stenting).
Limiting the time that a fluoroscope is activated and by appropriately managing the intensity of the applied radiation, the operator limits radiation in the environment, and this saves the exposure to the patient and all personnel in the room.
Nephrotoxicity is one of the most important properties of radiocontrast.
The goal of the study was to compare fluoroscopy time, the amount of radiocontrast, and expenses of material used in direct stenting and in stenting with predilatation.
Von Hippel Lindau disease is an autosomal dominant multisystem/multitumoral cancer disease diagnosed by clinical, radiologic and genetic findings.
Its prevalence has been estimated to be of 1/36000 inhabitants.
The tumours can be benign or malignant.
The aim of this study was to examine whether (31)P NMR can efficiently detect X-ray radiation induced changes of energy metabolism in mice.
This has as a consequence decreased phosphocreatine to adenosine triphosphate ratio (Pcr/ATP) as well as increased creatine kinase (CK) and liver enzymes (transaminases AST and ALT) levels in serum.
External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) for retinoblastoma has traditionally been done with conventional radiotherapy techniques which resulted high doses to the surrounding normal tissues.
Enhanced dynamic wedges (EDW) are known to increase drastically the radiation therapy treatment efficiency.
This paper has the aim to compare linear array measurements of EDW with the calculations of treatment planning system (TPS) and the electronic portal imaging device (EPID) for 15 MV photon energy.
Bisphosphonates are drugs used in the treatment of lytic bone metastases, multiple myeloma, hypercalcemia of malignant origin, osteoporosis, and diseases such as Paget's disease.
Recently osteonecrosis of the jaw has been associated with the use of bisphosphonates.
This study describes the imaging findings of bisphosphonate-associated osteonecrosis of the jaws.
Fistula is considered to be any abnormal passage which connects two epithelial surfaces.
Parks' fistulae classification demonstrates the biggest practical significance and divides fistulae into: intersphincteric, transsphincteric, suprasphincteric and extrasphincteric.
Etiology of perianal fistulae is most commonly linked with the inflammation of anal glands in Crohn's disease, tuberculosis, pelvic infections, pelvic malignant tumours, and with the radiotherapy.
Diagnostic method options are: RTG fistulography, CT fistulography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of pelvic organs.
The majority of patients harbouring CLB tumours develop the invasive disease.
Almost all invasive carcinomas are believed to begin as ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) lesions.
The sensitivity of MRI for DCIS is much higher than that of mammography.
infections and malignancies.
The critical aspect of lymphedema therapy is to start as soon as possible to prevent the irreversible tissue damage.
Cancer drugs are high risk drugs and medication errors in their prescribing, preparation and administration have serious consequences, including death.
The importance of a multidisciplinary approach and the benefits of pharmacists' contribution to cancer treatment to minimise risk have been established.
However, the impact of services provided by pharmacists to cancer patient care is poorly studied.
Gemcitabine is a potent cytotoxic agent used in the treatment of many solid tumours, sarcomas and lymphomas.
Vascular toxicity and thrombotic events related to gemcitabine seem to be underreported.
Isolated ureteral metastasis from gastric cancer is extremely rare.
Obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is characterized by repeated breathing pauses during sleep and is closely associated with obesity.
Body fat is known to be a predictive factor for OSAHS and its severity.
Despite its proven effectiveness and the strong scientific recommendations for its routine use in the care of COPD, PR is generally underutilized and strategies for increasing access to PR are needed.
Home-based self-monitored pulmonary rehabilitation is an alternative to outpatient rehabilitation.
hepatitis B and C) and non-viral aetiologies (e.g.
coronary artery disease, diabetes, hepatocellular carcinoma).
Moreover, the scarcity of donor organs and their use in a population where the clinical benefit of transplantation is uncertain has limited the availability of organ transplantation to persons living with ESOF and HIV.
HAART can suppress HIV replication, enhance immune function, and slow disease progression.
HAART managed persons can now be expected to live longer than those in the pre-HAART era and as a result many will now experience ESOF well before they experience life-threatening conditions related to HIV infection.
Given their improved prognosis and the burden of illness they may experience from ESOF, the benefit of solid organ transplantation for HIV+ patients needs to be reassessed.
For cases of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and progressive chronic respiratory failure, the first choice or treatment is mechanical ventilation.
For decades, this method has been used to support critically ill patients in respiratory failure.
Despite its life-saving potential, however, several experimental and clinical studies have suggested that ventilator-induced lung injury can adversely affect the lungs and patient outcomes.
In addition, mechanical ventilation may fail to provide adequate gas exchange, thus patients may suffer from severe hypoxia and hypercapnea.
The Ontario Health Technology Advisory Committee (OHTAC) met on November 27, 2009 to review the safety, effectiveness, durability and cost-effectiveness of ELT for the treatment of primary VV based on an evidence-based review by the Medical Advisory Secretariat (MAS).
CLINICAL CONDITION: VV are tortuous, twisted, or elongated veins.
As a result of high venous pressure, branch vessels balloon out leading to varicosities (varicose veins).
SYMPTOMS TYPICALLY AFFECT THE LOWER EXTREMITIES AND INCLUDE (BUT ARE NOT LIMITED TO): aching, swelling, throbbing, night cramps, restless legs, leg fatigue, itching and burning.
Left untreated, venous reflux tends to be progressive, often leading to chronic venous insufficiency (CVI).
Stasis dermatitis is comprised of a spectrum of cutaneous abnormalities including edema, hyperpigmentation, eczema, lipodermatosclerosis and stasis ulceration.
Ulceration represents the disease end point for severe CVI.
In severe cases, VV with ulcers, QOL has been rated to be as bad or worse as other chronic diseases such as back pain and arthritis.
Lower limb VV is a common disease affecting adults and estimated to be the seventh most common reason for physician referral in the US.
Approximately 1% of the adult population has a stasis ulcer of venous origin at any one time with 4% at risk.
The majority of leg ulcer patients are elderly with simple superficial vein reflux.
Stasis ulcers are often lengthy medical problems and can last for several years and, despite effective compression therapy and multilayer bandaging are associated with high recurrence rates.
It does not require an operating room or general anesthesia and has been performed in outpatient settings by a variety of medical specialties including surgeons (vascular or general), interventional radiologists and phlebologists.
Rather than surgically removing the vein, ELT works by destroying, cauterizing or ablating the refluxing vein segment using heat energy delivered via laser fibre.
Prior to ELT, colour-flow Doppler ultrasonography is used to confirm and map all areas of venous reflux to devise a safe and effective treatment plan.
A tumescent anesthetic solution is injected into the soft tissue surrounding the target vein along its entire length.
This serves to anaesthetize the vein so that the patient feels no discomfort during the procedure.
It also serves to insulate the heat from damaging adjacent structures, including nerves and skin.
Once satisfactory positioning has been confirmed with ultrasound, the laser is activated.
At the end of the procedure, homeostasis is then achieved by applying pressure to the entry point.
Adequate and proper compression stockings and bandages are applied after the procedure to reduce the risk of venous thromboembolism, and to reduce postoperative bruising and tenderness.
Follow-up protocols vary, with most patients returning 1-3 weeks later for an initial follow-up visit.
At this point, the initial clinical result is assessed and occlusion of the treated vessels is confirmed with ultrasound.
Endovascular laser for the treatment of VV was approved by Health Canada as a class 3 device in 2002.
The treatment has been an insured service in Saskatchewan since 2007 and is the only province to insure ELT.
Although the treatment is not an insured service in Ontario, it has been provided by various medical specialties since 2002 in over 20 private clinics.
In July 2009, the Medical Advisory Secretariat (MAS) began work on Non-Invasive Cardiac Imaging Technologies for the Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD), an evidence-based review of the literature surrounding different cardiac imaging modalities to ensure that appropriate technologies are accessed by patients suspected of having CAD.
This project came about when the Health Services Branch at the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care asked MAS to provide an evidentiary platform on effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of non-invasive cardiac imaging modalities.After an initial review of the strategy and consultation with experts, MAS identified five key non-invasive cardiac imaging technologies for the diagnosis of CAD.
For each technology, an economic analysis was also completed (where appropriate).
Available from: http://theta.utoronto.ca/reports/?id=7
Traditionally the surgery is performed via an open approach.
With more familiarity and expertise in endoscopic sinus surgery the endonasal approach is feasible.
There is a growing evidence that rhinosinusitis may be associated with asthma as different manifestations of the same disorder.
Whether ESS has a positive effect on the clinical course of asthma still remains controversial.
The anterior ethmoidal artery is an important landmark in functional endoscopic sinus surgery.
Back and neck pain are important health problems with serious societal and economic implications.
Conventional treatments have been shown to have limited benefit in improving patient outcomes.
Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) therapies offer additional options in the management of low back and neck pain.
Many trials evaluating CAM therapies have poor quality and inconsistent results.
The utility of the recently introduced semirigid thoracoscopy in undiagnosed pleural effusions is still unclear.
Interventional bronchoscopists manage central airway obstruction (CAO) through dilation, tumor ablation, and/or stent insertion.
Anatomical optical coherence tomography (aOCT), a validated light-based imaging technique, has the unique capacity of providing bronchoscopists with intraprocedural central airway measurements.
This study aims to describe the potential role of real-time aOCT in guiding interventions during CAO procedures.
Although endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) has become increasingly available and more widely used for the diagnosis of mediastinal lymph node lesions, there are few reports regarding methods of anesthesia.
We conducted a retrospective study assessing the efficacy of meperidine (MP) for EBUS-TBNA.
It is well known that the use of a microwave oven greatly reduces the time for histoprocessing.
The fat area at the umbilical region on CT scans is widely used to identify visceral obesity.
However, whether it precisely represents the abdominal visceral fat volume is uncertain, because of technical difficulty in evaluating whole-abdominal visceral fat volume.
In this study, we compared the whole-abdominal visceral fat and subcutaneous fat volumes with the visceral fat area at the umbilical region and anthropometric indices.
Previous studies have shown that general and abdominal adiposity are closely associated with risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease events.
In adults, modest weight loss of five percent improves CVD risk marker levels.
Accurate waist and hip measurement are increasingly central to the goal of weight control and the battle against diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
Protocols and methods vary widely, with little guidance on clothing.
The gold standard method, hydrodensitometry, has severe limitations for the pediatric population.
Evidence shows that waist circumference (WC) is one reliable index to predict abdominal obesity in children.
This study aims to examine the relationship of WC to other anthropometric indexes and to determine the ability of WC as obesity screening tool.
However, its efficacy for widespread superficial SCC has not yet been confirmed.
Three different classification systems for the evaluation of Barrett's esophagus (BE) using magnification endoscopy (ME) and narrow-band imaging (NBI) have been proposed.
Until now, no comparative and external evaluation of these systems in a clinical-like situation has been performed.
American Heart Association and Veterans Affairs Health Services Research &amp; Development Service.
None.
Female sexual dysfunction (FSD) affects 33-48% of women.
Female rats with low sexual activity might model FSD.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is often associated with male hypogonadism.
Despite the well-known link, the role of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) in MetS has not been completely clarified.
In 2008 Coloplast Corporation modified their Titan inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP) with a new One-Touch Release (OTR) pump, in an attempt to facilitate device deflation.
There is currently little published data concerning this new pump.
It is unknown whether standard medical therapy to treat LS results in improved sexual functioning.
Alliance of Eli Lilly and Company and Amylin Pharmaceuticals.
Finding Answers: Disparities Research for Change, a national program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
15, No.
3.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Penile incarceration for erotic or autoerotic purposes has been reported in a wide range of age groups, and often presents a significant challenge to urologic surgeons.
No ready method has been reported for removing a polyvinylchloride (PVC) pipe entrapped on the penis.
Preclinical studies of radiotherapy (RT) induced erectile dysfunction (ED) have been limited by radiation toxicity when using large fields.
The relationship between erectile dysfunction (ED) and depressive symptoms is well established.
Studies with ETMI so far have been performed in tertiary referral settings only.
Recently, attention has been focused on peridural fibrosis (PF), which may be responsible for recurrent pain after laminectomy or discectomy.
Methylene blue (MB) has been shown to prevent fibrosis formation in various tissues.
It can be classified as epidural or subarachnoid, identifying the anatomical space where the air is located, and is associated with different etiologies, pathology, and treatments.
The National Institutes of Health and the Arthritis Foundation.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
The Brookdale Foundation.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
15, No.
8.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Self-expandable metal stents (SEMSs) provide a promising alternative for initial palliation of malignant bowel obstruction.
However, data on the long-term outcomes of SEMSs are limited.
National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
The Veterans Affairs Research Enhancement Award Program.
URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00596713?term=NCT00596713&amp;rank=1.
Number: NCT00596713
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol 15, No.
12.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Previous research suggests that socks may have the potential for injury protection through the absorption and/or redistribution of impact forces.
However, there is limited research regarding the shock attenuation qualities of athletic socks in sporting populations and previously observed pressure reductions have not been quantified using a force plate.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
15, No.
13.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
There are few studies in this field in Norway; none of them focus on the final days and hours of a patient's life from the perspective of their relatives.
Biomet Biologics LLC, Warsaw, Indiana.
French Ministry of Health.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, United Health Foundation, and the Commonwealth Fund.
None.
Nutritional supplements are commonly used for a variety of musculoskeletal conditions, including knee and hip degenerative joint disease.
The management of carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the penis is controversial, with relatively high local recurrence rates after minimally invasive therapies.
Cavernous nerve (CN) injury during radical prostatectomy (RP) causes CN degeneration and secondary penile fibrosis and smooth muscle cell (SMC) apoptosis.
Pentoxifylline (PTX) is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor that further inhibits multiple cytokine pathways involved in nerve degeneration, apoptosis, and fibrosis.
This research was commissioned by the National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Balloon endoscopy has been accepted as an effective tool for examining the small intestine.
Two types of balloon endoscopy, single and double, are commercially available.
In unresectable malignant biliary obstruction, stent insertion can be the treatment of choice.
However, metal stents are susceptible to occlusion by tumor ingrowth or overgrowth.
The recently introduced paclitaxel-eluting covered metal stents (PECMSs) may prevent occlusion from tumor ingrowth by the antitumor effect of paclitaxel.
Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is safe and effective for eradicating Barrett's esophagus (BE) and BE-associated early neoplasia.
A recent clinical study shows an increase in sexual drive of HSDD women after cotreatment of testosterone and vardenafil (phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor).
Nitric oxide (NO) has been shown to mediate electrical field stimulation (EFS)-caused smooth muscle relaxation.
It is known that the neural control of penile erection involves adrenergic, cholinergic, and non-adrenergic-non-cholinergic (NANC) neuro-effector systems; however, the effects of EFS on adrenergic and cholinergic nerves are not clear.
In this study, the investigators propose five preliminary criteria to establish the diagnosis.
Phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors are very effective agents for erectile dysfunction; however, specific patient populations are hard to treat.
The efficacy of PDE5 inhibitors is limited because a minimum amount of nitric oxide (NO) is necessary.
Resveratrol, a plant polyphenol, is reported to activate endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) through activation of sirtuin 1.
We previously reported that human corpus cavernosal smooth muscle cells (CCSMCs) express eNOS and synthesize cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) via the NO/cGMP pathway.
Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) genital infection has been related to several diseases in young sexually active women.
Medical students themselves have identified quality and safety of care as an important area of instruction; as future doctors and healthcare leaders, they must be prepared to practise safe healthcare.
Medical education has yet to fully embrace patient safety concepts and principles into existing medical curricula.
Universities are continuing to produce graduate doctors lacking in the patient safety knowledge, skills and behaviours thought necessary to deliver safe care.
A significant challenge is that patient safety is still a relatively new concept and area of study; thus, many medical educators are unfamiliar with the literature and unsure how to integrate patient safety learning into existing curriculum.
National Institutes of Health.
Cultural competency is gaining recognition as an essential strategy by which to address health care disparities.
Clinical audits are critical and systematic quality analysis of medical care.
It has been suggested that risk of erectile dysfunction (ED) increases with duration of diabetes and phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5I) are not as effective in treatment of diabetes-associated ED.
Although progress has been made with regard to types of markers (protein, DNA, RNA, and metabolites) and implementation of improved technologies (mass spectrometry, arrays, and deep sequencing), the discovery of novel biomarkers for prostate cancer (PCa) in complex fluids, such as serum and urine, remains a challenge.
Meanwhile, recent studies have reported that many cancer-derived proteins and RNAs are secreted through small vesicles known as exosomes.
The malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum EBA-175 binds its receptor sialic acids on glycophorin A when invading erythrocytes.
The receptor-binding region (RII) contains two cysteine-rich domains with similar cysteine motifs (F1 and F2).
Functional relationships between F1 and F2 domains and characterization of EBA-175 were studied using specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against these domains.
Genentech and Novartis Pharmaceuticals.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) strains, which cause the majority of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (UTIs), carry a unique assortment of virulence or fitness genes.
However, no single defining set of virulence or fitness genes has been found in all strains of UPEC, making the differentiation between UPEC and fecal commensal strains of E. coli difficult without the use of animal models of infection or phylogenetic grouping.
One gene, tosA, a putative repeat-in-toxin (RTX) homolog, is present in 11% of fecal strains but 25% of urinary isolates.
The presence of tosA was predictive of successful colonization of a murine model of infection, even among fecal isolates, and can be used as a marker of pathogenic strains of UPEC within a distinct subset of the B2 lineage.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Suicide and suicidal expressions among young people represent a major public health problem worldwide.
Nevirapine administered as a single dose each to the mother and child within 72 h after birth is used to prevent vertical transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) under the prevention of parent to child transmission of HIV program (PPTCT).
The efficacy of nevirapine in this regard has been proved beyond doubt, but there are unresolved questions about its safety.
Hence, the primary objective of this study was to evaluate the safety of this regime.
A model which describes the sources and sinks of thoron and its decay products should help to assess the indoor exposure.
Measurements were performed in an experiment room and in mud dwellings in China and India.
Mud even with an average (232)Th concentration was identified as a significant thoron source.
The spatial distribution of the decay products proved to be homogeneous, which is in contrast to thoron gas.
The prominent contribution of the unattached and attached decay product (212)Pb to the exposure was elaborated.
Transfer coefficients of the model were determined.
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
However, recurrence rates after local resection are higher, likely owing to unresected nodal metastasis.
Reports on predictors of lymph node metastasis remain inconsistent in the literature.
Although local resection may be appropriate for some rectal cancers, selection criteria remain unclear.
ISRCTN.
Identifier: 06298448. http://www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn/.
The accreditation process highlighted the importance of ongoing education and support for practices performing PoCT.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
15, No.
23.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Academic centers and community programs are too often separated by institutional and cultural chasms.
Such divides weaken our capacity to develop a diverse public health-oriented, community-based workforce.
This article describes one bridge designed to connect the academy to local safety net systems and the lessons learned during its construction.
Caregivers were cognitively intact and spouses had moderate cognitive impairment.
The Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency of the United Kingdom and the Swedish Medical Products Agency have both updated their patient information leaflets to include a statement that "persistence of erectile dysfunction after discontinuation of treatment with Propecia has been reported in post-marketing use."
The clear link between erectile dysfunction (ED) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) together with the increased potential for effectively treating ED with oral pharmacological agents make the primary care setting the ideal place to detect and treat ED and its potential comorbidities.
Given the observed shortcomings in knowledge related to ED among primary care physicians, continuous medical education (CME) on this topic stands out as a potentially effective way to improve patient care.
Dexamethasone was used to prevent further hemolysis in both foals, and to treat acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome in 1 of the foals.
Both foals survived, and required prolonged antimicrobial therapy.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Academic Medical Center, VU University Medical Center, Rijnstate Hospital, Leiden University Medical Center, Maastricht University Medical Center, Erasmus Medical Center, and Maasstad Hospital.
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and National Cancer Institute.
NCT00279682.
Trends in food retailing associated with the consolidation of smaller-format retailers into fewer, larger-format supercentres have left some rural areas with fewer sources of nutritious, affordable food.
Access to nutritious, affordable food is essential for good dietary habits and combating health issues such as type-2 diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
Many studies on food environments use inaccurate or incomplete methods for locating food retailers, which may be responsible for mischaracterising food deserts.
This study uses databases of every residence in and every food retailer in and around Middlesex County, Ontario, Canada.
Residences were geocoded to their precise address, and network analysis techniques were performed in a geographic information system (GIS) to determine distances between every residence and different types of food retailers (grocery stores, fast food, fruit and vegetable sources, grocery stores plus fruit and vegetable sources, variety stores), both when considering and neglecting facilities outside the area of study, to account for a deficiency in analysis termed the 'edge effect'.
Intramural Research Program, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health.
Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution 0.03% was approved in the US for reducing intraoccular pressure (IOP) based on two double-masked, active-controlled clinical trials.
Accidental ingestion of medium-to-large instruments is relatively uncommon during dental treatment but can be potentially dangerous.
Temporary biliary stenting is both technically easy and feasible, and choleretic agents such as ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and a terpene preparation may promote a reduction in stone size.
However, there are few comparative data on the effectiveness of choleretic agents available.
Current psychological views are that negative appraisals of sexual stimuli lie at the core of sexual dysfunctions.
It is important to differentiate between deliberate appraisals and more automatic appraisals, as research has shown that the former are most relevant to controllable behaviors, and the latter are most relevant to reflexive behaviors.
Sexual dysfunction (SD) is frequently associated with major depressive disorder (MDD) in the untreated state and may be worsened by antidepressant treatment.
Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is one of the key pathogenetic factors for diabetic erectile dysfunction (DED).
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine.
Eli Lilly, Da Costa Family Foundation for Research in Breast Cancer Prevention of the California Pacific Medical Center, and Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium.
Only a few public health interventions have attempted to work through bars and clubs to decrease tobacco use in the LGBT populations.
Evidence from HIV prevention suggests some potential interventions in bars, and the tobacco industry has worked extensively (and successfully) to utilize bars in marketing efforts.
There is increasing evidence that continuous activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis and the central sympathetic nervous system contributes to the pathogenesis of central adiposity via increased psychological stress.
The purpose of this study was to examine the link between central adiposity and the propensity for Chinese children to rehearse emotionally upsetting events, a dimension of psychological stress.
Brain regions implicated in sexual behavior begin to differentiate in the last trimester of gestation.
Antenatal therapy with corticosteroids is often used in clinical practice during this period to accelerate lung maturation in preterm-risk pregnancies.
Clinical and animal studies highlighted major behavioral impairments induced later in life by these treatments, especially when synthetic corticosteroids are used.
The psychological impacts of premature ejaculation (PE), which include guilt, anxiety, and distress, have been well established in Western countries.
The structural and neurochemical characterization of the sensory innervation of the external genitalia of females is poorly known.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is the most common male sexual dysfunction and has a negative impact on masculinity and self-esteem.
Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors, including sildenafil, are the first-line treatment option for ED.
Providing appropriate information regarding suitability for using sildenafil is important.
Aquaporins (AQPs) are membrane proteins that facilitate water movement across biological membranes.
This study builds on a previous report on the distinct localization of AQPs in the rat vagina.
National Institutes of Health.
Attorney General Consumer and Prescriber Education grant program, the Robert Wood Johnson Pioneer Program, and the National Cancer Institute.
Recurrent spontaneous pregnancy (RSA) is defined as a sequence of three or more consecutive spontaneous abortions.
Earlier research had suggested that anti-HLA antibodies are produced in normal women; studies have been reported that normal pregnant women develop anti-HLA antibodies, mostly after 20-28 weeks of gestation.
Insulin resistance (IR) is central to the pathogenesis of polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), but tests for determining IR are elaborate, tedious and expensive.
Most in vitro fertilization (IVF) programs employ embryo cryopreservation to enhance pregnancies from a single ovarian stimulation.
1994 to present.
Available for research by application to British Cardiovascular Intervention Society using a data sharing agreement which can be obtained at http://www.bcis.org.uk.
Dermatology visits for the prevention and treatment of aging skin are rapidly increasing.
A facial serum was developed with ingredients associated with an improvement in the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles and increase in stratum corneum barrier function.
Patients were instructed to use a gentle wash before applying the formulation and a moisturizer afterwards.
This review covers the epidemiology, underlying mechanisms, and acute and preventive treatments for cancer-related stroke.
Finally, strategies for stroke treatment in cancer patients are discussed, emphasizing the importance of preventive strategies (i.e., the use of anticoagulants) over acute revascularization therapy in cancer-related stroke.
Gaucher's disease is an autosomal recessive, lysosomal storage disease caused by mutations of the -glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA).
There is increasing evidence that GBA mutations are a genetic risk factor for the development of Parkinson's disease (PD).
We report herein a family of Koreans exhibiting parkinsonism-associated GBA mutations.
Mutations in the spatacsin gene are associated with spastic paraplegia type 11 (SPG11), which is the most-common cause of autosomal recessive hereditary spastic paraplegia.
The pigmented or melanotic variant of choroid plexus carcinoma is very rarely encountered.
Sepraspray Adhesion Barrier #NCT00624930.
Previous studies have confirmed the gene transfer of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and the IGF-1 protein can improve the erectile function in aging rats.
IGF binding protein (BP)-3 can regulates the availability of IGF-I.
The higher expression of IGFBP-3 may play an important role in erectile dysfunction (ED).
Sexual arousal is a multifaceted process that involves both mental and physical components.
No instrument has been developed and validated to assess subjective aspects of male sexual arousal.
Hyperthyroidism is a common hormonal disorder in women that may cause female sexual dysfunction (FSD).
Positive Pressure Treatment of Obstructive Sleep Apnea, http://www.clinicaltrials.gov, NCT00636181.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
There is little published describing curriculum development for the medical student in the operating room (OR).
There is little prospective data on the antibiotics prescribed and the adverse reactions associated with their use after penicillin skin testing.
CHIP Perinatal includes coverage for undocumented women and provides a glimpse into the birth outcomes of this difficult-to-reach population.
Because some patients have persistent emesis after pyloromyotomy and thus require prolonged hospitalization to prevent dehydration, it would be helpful to be able to predict in which patients this will occur.
Many patients and their families have difficulty making decisions when confronted with complex medical problems.
Often their expectations and hopes are beyond what medical science can deliver, and at times their desires seem to conflict with their treatment plans.
Additionally, costly tests and treatments with little or no benefit are often explored.
Inpatient palliative care consultation services for end-of-life-care planning can help patients navigate this complexity, arrive at a care plan consistent with their personal values, and be good stewards of precious medical resources.
At the Institute of Mental Health/Woodbridge Hospital, 55% of the long-stay patients are on more than two antipsychotics for treatment of chronic schizophrenia.
Our aim was to reduce antipsychotic polypharmacy (APP) among chronic schizophrenia inpatients at the long-term wards at the Institute of Mental Health, Singapore from 2006 to 2008.
Beijing Science and Technology Project and Beijing Nova Program.
The USA had the highest current and average GDPHE; the UK was 10th highest but joint 16th overall, still below the Western countries' average.
Output: Every country's mortality rate fell substantially; but 15 countries reduced their mortality rates significantly more than the US, while UK 'adult' and 'older' mortality rates fell significantly more than 12 other countries.
Cost-effectiveness: The USA GDPHE: mortality rate ratio was 1:205 for 'adults' and 1:515 for 'older' people, 16 Western countries having bigger ratios than the US; the UK had second greatest ratios at 1:593 and 1:1595, respectively.
The UK ratios were &gt;20% larger than 14 other countries.
Our objective was to find single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), within transcriptional pathways of glucose and lipid metabolism, which are related to multiple features of the metabolic syndrome (MetS).
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
15, No.
29.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of local anaesthesia (LA) for EVAR to overcome these limitations.
ISRCTN29854485.
Investigations into 'inappropriate' use of emergency health services are limited by the lack of definition of what constitutes a health emergency.
Position papers from Australian and international sources emphasise the patient's right to access emergency healthcare, and the responsibility of emergency health care workers to provide treatment to all patients.
However, discordance between the two perspectives remain, with literature labelling patient use of emergency health services as 'inappropriate'.
Endoscopic treatment consists of the division of the septum between the diverticulum and the esophagus, within which the cricopharyngeal muscle is contained.
Diathermic monopolar current, argon plasma coagulation, and laser have been used to incise the muscular septum with satisfactory results.
Perforation and hemorrhage are reported in as many as 23% and 10% of patients, respectively.
We measured protein-energy nutritional status by using the Subjective Global Assessment, albumin, normalized nitrogen appearance, creatinine, body mass index, and cholesterol.
Although there is an abundant debate regarding the mechanisms sustaining one of the most common sexual complaints among women, i.e., female hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD), little remains known about the specific neural bases of this disorder.
South-Eastern Norway Regional Health Authority.
The NIH-AARP Diet and Health Study was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the NIH.
National Institutes of Health.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
15, No.
32.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Lower limb injuries are a large problem in athletes.
However, there is a paucity of knowledge on the relationship between alignment of the medial longitudinal arch (MLA) of the foot and development of such injuries.
A reliable and valid test to quantify foot type is needed to be able to investigate the relationship between arch type and injury likelihood.
However, no study has investigated the reliability of the test.
The reports of spinal accessory nerve injury in the literature primarily focus on injury following surgical dissection or traumatic stretch injury.
There is limited literature describing the presentation and diagnosis of this injury with an unknown cause.
This will inform the Global Burden of Disease 2010 study.
The aggregation of the baker's yeast prion Sup35p is at the origin of the transmissible [PSI(+)] trait.
We and others have shown that molecular chaperones modulate Sup35p aggregation.
However, other protein classes might be involved in [PSI(+)] formation.
Despite effective anti-TB treatments, tuberculosis remains a serious threat to public health and is associated with high mortality.
Facial flat warts are a contagious viral disease that can cause disturbing cosmetic problems.
Topical glycolic acid has been reported to be effective in dermatological treatment depending on the exfoliant capacity, but has not often been reported to be effective in the treatment of facial flat warts.
The most common of the neuropathies associated with diabetes mellitus, diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy (DSPN) is a syndrome of diffuse, length-dependent, symmetric nerve dysfunction.
Correspondingly, antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and opioids are regularly prescribed with the goal of pain control.
However, the agents rarely provide complete pain relief and fail to address progression of the disorder.
Evidence implicating oxidative processes in the pathogenesis of DSPN offers one potentially important therapeutic avenue.
Due to its properties as a potent antioxidant, alpha lipoic acid (ALA) could mitigate the development of DSPN and attenuate resultant symptoms and signs.
Approved for treatment of DSPN in Germany, the agent is not more widely used due to uncertainty about its efficacy and reported adverse effects.
Here we review the effectiveness and tolerability of ALA in the treatment of symptomatic DSPN.
Feeding device replacement is often required for long-term maintenance after initial percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy or jejunostomy placement.
Although there are several case reports on serious complications of gastrostomy device replacement, there are few reports of an overall analysis of the complications associated with feeding device replacement.
Hilleria latifolia (Lam.)
H. Walt.
(Phytolaccaceae) is a perennial herb used in Ghanaian traditional medicine for the treatment of various painful conditions.
Little scientific evidence exists in literature on the effect of this plant on pain.
It is observed in studies done for western medical journals that insufficient information related to drug is usually provided in the drug advertisements published in them.
Globally researchers have long back noted that the trend of substance use was on the rise particularly in the student population.
Olmesartan medoxomil (OLM), an anti-hypertensive agent administered orally has absolute bioavailability of only 26% due to the poor aqueous solubility (&lt;7.75 g/ml).
The present investigation aimed at enhancing the oral bioavailability of OLM by improving its solubility and dissolution rate by preparing nanosuspensions.
Raloxifene, a second-generation selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) used to prevent osteoporosis in postmenopausal women is administered orally in the form of a tablet.
The absolute bioavailability of the drug is only 2% because of extensive hepatic first-pass metabolism.
Lipid-based formulations are reported to reduce the first-pass metabolism by promoting its lymphatic uptake.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Data pertaining to managerial indicators of RNTCP are rare.
The present study was done to analyze the RNTCP indicators in one rural and one urban tuberculosis unit in Burdwan, West Bengal, and find out any influencing factor.
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is one of the many cause of pain in advance cases of carcinoma cervix.
The most widely used agent for combating DVT is unfractionated heparin.
Complementary medicine like hypnotherapy is often used for pain and palliative care.
Health professionals vary in views about hypnotherapy, its utility, value, and attitudes.
There is high mortality due to late stage diagnosis as patients usually present at an advanced stage because of lack of awareness and nonexistent breast cancer screening programs.
Care of diabetes mellitus in the elderly requires an additional perspective to take into account impaired cognitive function, physical function, low level of education, and difficulty making lifestyle changes.
Existing services tend to be driven by the views of tertiary and secondary care staff, rather than those of primary care staff and elderly patients.
Cerebral malaria, defined as otherwise unexplained coma in a patient with circulating parasitemia, is a common disease in the developing world.
The presence of malarial retinopathy can be used to differentiate children whose comas are caused by Plasmodium falciparum and its attendant pathophysiologies from those with other reasons for their abnormal mental status.
National Cancer Institute.
National Cancer Institute.
The Greenwall Foundation and the National Institutes of Health.
PFMT was defined as a programme of repeated voluntary pelvic floor muscle contraction and with or without supervised by health care professional.
All studies were eligible for inclusion if there was at least one arm with a PFMT protocol, alone or together with other adjunctive therapies (biofeedback, electrical stimulation or vaginal weights) compared with or without control group.
Power has been shown to consistently predict rowing performance, yet traditional methods to improve power may negatively impact performance when coupled with endurance training.
Neuro Emotional Technique (NET) has been found to reduce stress and anxiety, which are also known to impair performance.
Approximately 25% of all babies in North America are delivered via Caesarean section (C-section).
Though a common surgical procedure, C-section recovery can be painful.
Opioids, specifically codeine, are commonly used to ease pain; however, its active metabolite, morphine, passes into breast milk, and may produce unwanted side effects in neonates; therefore, alternatives to opioids are being sought.
Reiki is an ancient Japanese form of healing where practitioners transfer healing energy through light touch and positive healing intention.
Although 1.2 million Americans use reiki to reduce pain or depression, there is a lack of strong evidence supporting its effectiveness.
A recent systematic review showed existing studies to be of poor methodological quality, with the common limitation of lack of blinding.
To overcome this issue, the authors used distant reiki to assess its effectiveness in reducing pain following an elective C-section.
Primary care databases provide a unique resource for healthcare research, but most researchers currently use only the Read codes for their studies, ignoring information in the free text, which is much harder to access.
Ethical registration was granted by King's College London Research Ethics Committee (ref: PNM/08/09-42).
All participants provide written informed consent.
Other CBT delivery options will also be examined (including Computerised Self-Help CBT and Group CBT workshops).
Clinical Trial Registration Number ISRCTN57302613.
This action is standard across NHS Trusts in Wales.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) prevention guidelines recommend lifetime risk stratification for primary prevention of CVD, but no such risk stratification has been performed in India to date.
The potential of this technique in distinguishing normal tissue from hyperplastic and dysplastic tissues was explored.
The LNP condition leads to an inability to digest the milk sugar lactose leading to gastrointestinal symptoms and can affect nutrient and calcium intake in certain populations.
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are increasing throughout the world and cause 16.7 million deaths each year, 80% of which occur in low and middle income countries.
The protocol has obtained formal ethics approval from institutional review boards in Argentina, Chile, Uruguay and the USA.
The lack of follow-up studies has prevented Argentina, Chile and Uruguay from implementing risk factor stratification and management strategies at a population level.
However, the CESCAS I study data will help the development of public health strategies based on primary care intervention, thus helping to improve cardiovascular health in this region.
Clinical guidelines for the treatment of hip and knee osteoarthritis recommend non-pharmacological and non-surgical treatments.
Exercise treatments are recommended as primary strategies, but specific exercise programme components have not been specified.
Early evidence indicates that manual physiotherapy is effective for hip and knee osteoarthritis.
This paper describes the methods that will be used to conduct the economic evaluation of these interventions within the MOA Trial.
Ethical approval was granted by the Lower South Regional Ethics Committee of the New Zealand Ministry of Health (ethics reference: LRS/07/11/044).
Clinical trials registration number ACTRN12608000130369.
Reversal of a temporary ileostomy is generally associated with a low morbidity and mortality.
However, ostomy reversal may cause complications requiring reoperation with subsequent major complications, in ranges from 0% to 7-9% and minor complications varying from 4-5% to 30%.
Based on studies exploring and describing the time of closure in previous studies which are mostly of low quality, a recent review concluded that closing a temporary stoma within 2 weeks did not seem to be associated with an increase in morbidity and mortality.
Hyperglycaemia is associated with poor outcomes from exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Glycaemic control could improve outcomes by reducing infection, inflammation and myopathy.
Research into pharmacokinetic profiles of children's medicines is essential in the creation of more knowledge on the safety and efficacy of medicines in children.
Corticosteroid injections (CSI) are a recommended and often-used first-line intervention for shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS) in primary care and orthopaedic settings.
There is limited evidence to suggest significant long-term improvements in pain, strength and disability with the use of MPT, and there are conflicting reports from systematic reviews that question the long-term efficacy of CSI.
The results may have an impact on clinical practice guidelines.
This study was funded in part by the Orthopaedic Physical Therapy Products Grant through the American Academy of Orthopaedic Manual Physical Therapists.
Trial Registration http://clinicaltrials.gov/ NCT01190891.
Recent studies have suggested that microvascular and macrovascular diseases are associated with coronary events.
Return to work is an important outcome factor for working-age patients poststroke.
Previous epidemiological studies on this topic have been small (on average 125 patients per study).
Their estimated effects are therefore associated with a tremendous statistical uncertainty.
The impulse oscillometry is increasingly used for assessing the oscillatory mechanics of the respiratory system.
The within-breath behaviour of the oscillatory mechanics in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a well-known physiological feature.
The purpose of this study was to develop a new approach for assessing this feature using impulse oscillometry.
All participants completed signed informed consent prior to enrollment.
All participants will receive a free copy of Road Tour for unlimited perpetual use at study completion.
Clinical Trial Registration Number NCT01165463.
Self-diagnosis of influenza is an important component of pandemic control and management as it may support self-management practices and reduce visits to healthcare facilities, thus helping contain viral spread.
Although vitamin D insufficiency is prevalent in the community, only a few population-based studies have measured serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D (25OHD) levels during pregnancy and in newborns.
Maternal vitamin D deficiency has been linked to pregnancy complications, as well as hypocalcaemia and rickets in the newborn.
With the implementation of bowel cancer screening programmes, more and more colonic polyps are detected, requiring hot biopsies or resections with an attendant risk of perforation.
Laparoscopy is increasingly performed for assessing colonoscopic perforations, usually repaired by stitching or stapling, which is associated with a risk of a leak from the suture line.
Wnt/-catenin signaling is involved in various aspects of skeletal muscle development and regeneration.
In addition, Wnt3a and -catenin are required for muscle-specific gene transcription in embryonic carcinoma cells and satellite-cell proliferation during adult skeletal muscle regeneration.
Downstream targets of canonical Wnt signaling are cyclin D1 and c-myc.
However both target genes are suppressed during differentiation of mouse myoblast cells, C2C12.
Underlying molecular mechanisms of -catenin signaling during myogenic differentiation remain unknown.
Nanoemulsions have practical application in a multitude of commercial areas, such as the chemical, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries.
Cosmetic industries use rice bran oil in sunscreen formulations, anti ageing products and in treatments for skin diseases.
The aim of this study was to create rice bran oil nanoemulsions using low energy emulsification methods and to evaluate their physical stability, irritation potential and moisturising activity on volunteers with normal and diseased skin types.
Coronary artery fistulas (CAFs) are infrequent anomalies, coincidentally detected during coronary angiography (CAG).
Diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) currently requires endoscopic biopsy and histopathologic analysis of the biopsy specimens to count intraepithelial eosinophils.
Studies investigating sexual arousal exist, yet there are diverging findings on the underlying neural mechanisms with regard to sexual orientation.
Moreover, sexual arousal effects have often been confounded with general arousal effects.
Hence, it is still unclear which structures underlie the sexual arousal response in homosexual and heterosexual men.
Arthritis Research UK.
National Cancer Institute.
Reduced upper airway muscle activity during sleep is fundamental to obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) pathogenesis.
Hypoglossal nerve stimulation (HGNS) counteracts this problem, with potential to reduce OSA severity.
Inflammation has been implicated in a variety of diseases associated with ageing, including cancer, cardiovascular, and neurologic diseases.
The present study was undertaken to identify non-toxic proteasome inhibitors with the expectation that these compounds could potentially suppress the production of inflammatory mediators in ageing humans, thereby decreasing the risk of developing ageing related diseases.
We evaluated the capacity of various proteasome inhibitors to suppress TNF-, NO and gene suppression of TNF-, and iNOS mRNA, by LPS-stimulated macrophages from several sources.
Further, we evaluated the mechanisms by which these agents suppress secretion of TNF-, and NO production.
Over the course of these studies, we measured the effects of various proteasome inhibitors on the RAW 264.7 cells, and peritoneal macrophages from four different strains of mice (C57BL/6, BALB/c, proteasome double subunits knockout LMP7/MECL-1-/-, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-,-/- (PPAR-,-/-) knockout mice.
We also directly measured the effect of these proteasome inhibitors on proteolytic activity of 20S rabbit muscle proteasomes.
Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is caused by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV; human herpesvirus 8).
KS is an AIDS-defining cancer, and it is changing in the post-antiretroviral therapy (post-ART) era.
This is in contrast to pre-ART era KS, which was associated with systemic HIV replication and CD4 counts of 200 cells/l.
Using primary patient biopsy specimens, we identified a novel molecular signature that characterizes AIDS KS lesions that develop in HIV-suppressed patients on ART: KSHV transcription is limited in HIV-suppressed patients.
With one exception, only the canonical viral latency mRNAs were detectable.
In contrast, early AIDS KS lesions expressed many more viral mRNAs, including, for instance, the viral G protein-coupled receptor (vGPCR).
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Reiki is a Japanese form of energy healing that has become popular in the US.
Reiki training involves three stages-levels I, II, and III-to a master practitioner level and requires both giving and receiving Reiki.
We set out to implement a program to train clients of a supported residence in Brooklyn, NY.
They were all older than age 50 years and had HIV/AIDS and substance-abuse and/or mental-health disorders.
Hospital medicine is a young specialty that is still evolving.
In its early years, research focused on clinical outcomes, efficiency, and cost effectiveness.
Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 is an inducible enzyme that converts tryptophan to kynurenine and shares functional similarities with inducible nitric oxide synthase.
Recently, kynurenine has been identified as an endothelium-derived relaxing factor produced during inflammation, raising the possibility that this novel pathway may contribute to hypotension in human sepsis.
A preliminary randomised single-blind clinical trial.
Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 37: 1158-1166.
[Prepared by Kylie Hill, CAP Editor.]
BMJ 342: d2786 doi:10.1136/bmj.d2786.
[Prepared by Margreth Grotle and Kre Birger Hagen, CAP Editors.]
BMJ 343: d5326.
[Prepared by Nicholas Taylor, CAP Editor.]
Children; Adolescents; Reason for encounter; General practice; Primary care.
Aging; Smoking; Self Report; Health Promotion; Hearing Screening.
Pre-transplant frozen section evaluation for macrovesicular steatosis has long been used as a guide for donor liver utility, but may not agree with the permanent section evaluation.
Liver; Steatosis; Pathology.
The question of whether children and infants have memory capabilities similar to adults has long been of interest.
Until recently, it was thought that compared to adults, infants have very limited memory processing abilities.
Knowledge about factors affecting a child's memory abilities can help families (specifically mothers) behave in a manner that best benefits their children in language and memory skills.
The present study examines one factor that may underlie a child's memory capabilities; namely the mother's narrative style.
Child; Mother; Memory; Narrative style.
A total 1,153 of HL cases occurred during the same period, and its rate was 0.24.
Geographical distribution HB cases were eastern and western regions of the rural (88.6% of total) in the Korean peninsula, showing higher outbreaks than other areas, while HL occurred in easterly regions (64.5%).
Significantly more males were infected in both HB (86.8%) and HL (59.5%) than those of females in both HB (13.1%) and HL (41.1%), respectively (p &lt; 0.01).
The occupational distribution of HB cases was famers, veterinarians, dairyman and others, and those of HL cases were broad.
Early periprosthetic osteolysis following total hip replacement (THR) as a result of septic etiology has been well understood.
Proximal femur has been the most common site of involvement compared to acetabular prosthesis.
The rarity of this clinical entity can lead to delay in definitive diagnosis and management, thus affecting the final outcome.
Breast is the commonest site of carcinoma in female patients despite which not many cases of periprosthetic metastasis have been reported in the literature.
Periprosthetic metastasis; Total hip replacement; Breast carcinoma.
Placental insufficiency is a major cause of fetal growth restriction (FGR) and accumulating evidence indicates several aspects of placental morphology are altered in this condition.
MRI provides quantitative indices that may be used in non-invasive assessment of the human placenta, such as relaxation time measurements, T1 and T2.
We hypothesised that placental relaxation times relate to alterations in placental tissue morphology and hence may be useful in identifying the changes associated with FGR.
Fluid resuscitation with saline in severe sepsis is controversial.
Hypertonic (3%) saline (HTS) may be superior to normal (0.9%) saline (NS).
The Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Society (ANZICS) guidelines for the determination of brain death involve clinical testing and/or the use of brain blood flow analysis techniques.
Recently, there has been professional and lay discussion regarding the role of brain blood flow analysis in the determination of brain death.
The role of aerobic physical activity as a standalone treatment in decreasing adiposity in school-aged children and youth has not been well established.
The objective of this paper is to introduce a new and reportedly safe training technique, utilizing a vascular restriction stimulus during low intensity rehabilitative exercise and provide a case example within a post-surgical rehabilitation scenario.
A brief review of the most commonly reported mechanisms of action behind the purported success of the training stimulus is included.
Weight reduction cycles are used by weight classed athletes in Taekwondo to make a weight category.
Tension, dizziness, headaches, and confusion have been associated with rapid weight loss (RWL).
There is a lack of research in weight cycling and its benefits among Taekwondo athletes.
Australia-New Zealand Trials Registry Number: ACTRN12610001041044.
Immunophilin ligands such as FK506 (FK) preserve erectile function (EF) following cavernous nerve injury (CNI), although the precise mechanisms are unclear.
We examined whether the thioredoxin (Trx) and glutathione (GSH) redox systems mediate this effect after CNI.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The FOA Study was funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (for the parent Framingham Heart Study), National Institute on Aging, and National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (FOA Study), National Institutes of Health.
French National Institute of Health and Medical Research.
Merck &amp; Co. and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health.
National Center for Research Resources.
Partners Community Healthcare, Inc.
Veterans Health Administration and The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Clinical Scholars Program.
The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's Pioneer Portfolio, Drane Family Fund, and Koplow Charitable Foundation.
Group 1 = upper jaw hypodontia.
Group 2 = lower jaw hypodontia.
Group 3 = hypodontia in both jaws.
The purpose of this article is to review the literature on whether evidence exists to support the notion that disrupted circadian rhythms provide a mechanism of cancer-related fatigue.
Construction and renovation work in hospitals pose risks of fungal airborne infections for immunosuppressed patients.
If possible, reconstruction work will be postponed to periods without patient treatment.
Reported here are infection control related measures and implemented procedures after two incidents of water damage which occurred on a surgical ward and an intensive care unit at the University hospital of Essen.
Prevention of post-endoscopy infections is an important objective to assure patient safety.
Endowashers, or high throughput irrigation water pumps, are a frequently used device on endoscopes.
Although major instruments like endoscopes are covered by these recommendations, other devices used as optional add-ons for endoscopes are not included.
Bacterial contamination of anesthesia breathing machines and their potential hazard for pulmonary infection and cross-infection among anesthetized patients has been an infection control issue since the 1950s.
Disposable equipment and bacterial filters have been introduced to minimize this risk.
However, the machines' internal breathing-circuit-system has been considered to be free of micro-organisms without providing adequate data supporting this view.
The aim of the study was to investigate if any micro-organisms can be yielded from used internal machines' breathing-circuit-system.
Based on such results objective reprocessing intervals could be defined.
Heat shock proteins are produced as a reaction of the body during a stress situation.
Once elevated, they protect against a second stress and reduce ischaemia-reperfusion injury within transplantations.
In the literature the effect of heat shock and HSP70 on rejection after CTA has not been described.
The purpose of this experimental study was to examine the effect of heat shock proteins on rejection in a rat model of CTA.
Evaluated was the effect of preconditioning by prior heat stress.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
A soft tissue defect requiring flap cover which is longer than that provided by the conventional "long" free flaps like latissimus dorsi (LD) and anterolateral thigh (ALT) flap is a challenging problem.
Over the last 3 years, we have managed nine such defects successfully with a free "Boomerang-shaped" Extended Rectus Abdominis Myocutaneous (BERAM) flap.
This flap is the slightly modified and "free" version of a similar flap described by Ian Taylor in 1983.
Temporomandibular joint ankylosis is a highly distressing condition in which the joint space is obliterated by scar tissue and the patient has an inability to open the mouth.
We have been using ultra thin silicon sheet as our preferred material for providing proper fixation and cover to the joint.
We have been encouraged by good patient compliance, no implant extrusion and favourable outcome.
Transverse facial cleft (Tessier type 7) or congenital macrostomia is a rare congenital anomaly seldom occurring alone and is frequently associated with deformities of the structures developing from the first and second branchial arches.
7 cleft varies from 1 in 60,000 to 1 in 300,000 live births.
The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the rectus abdominis myo-peritoneal flap (RAMP) technique for the closure and augmentation of small, non-elastic, non-compliant bladder exstrophies.
The treatment of pressure sores represents a significant challenge to health care professionals.
Although, pressure wound management demands a multidisciplinary approach, soft tissue defects requiring reconstruction are often considered for surgical management.
Pedicled skin and fasciocutaneous flaps are commonly used in plastic surgery.
Once such a flap is completely raised on its pedicle it becomes defenceless against any possible necrosis.
Dorsal dislocations with palmar lip fractures are the most frequently encountered.
Idiosyncratic drug reactions (IDRs) are unexpected responses to a drug.
The spectrums of severe cutaneous reactions include Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), SJS/Lyell Syndrome and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN).
The conditions are associated with high mortality.
The development of liposuction and abdominoplasty has renewed interest in the anatomy of the localized fat deposits (LFD) areas of the abdomen.
This study aims at ascertaining the gross anatomy of superficial fascia and the localized fat deposits of abdomen.
Traditionally, circumcision wounds are closed by absorbable sutures.
However, certain alternative methods are also being utilized to overcome the shortcomings of the conventionally used method for circumcision wound closuring.
In the current study, the use of tissue glue ((iso amyl 2-cyanoacrylate) has been compared with traditional suturing for the approximation of circumcision wounds.
In our study, both the methods were found to be comparable with significantly less time consumed in glue group.
Advances in treatment and disease prevention occur frequently in urology.
Urologists must identify a framework within which to evaluate these therapeutic innovations.
Aberrant expression of small noncoding endogenous RNA molecules known as microRNAs (miRNAs) is documented to occur in multiple cancer types including esophageal adencarcinoma (EAC) and its only known precursor, Barrett's esophagus (BE).
Recent studies have linked dysregulation of specific miRNAs to histological grade, neoplastic progression and metastatic potential.
Emerging evidence suggests a direct role of cancer stem cells (CSCs) in the development of breast cancer.
In vitro cellular models that recapitulate properties of CSCs are therefore highly desirable.
We have previously shown that normal human mammary epithelial cells (hMECs) immortalized with human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) possess properties of mammary stem / progenitor cells.
A full-thickness soft tissue defect closure often needs complex procedures.
The use of dermal templates can be helpful in improving the outcome.
Chronic pilonidal disease is a common debilitating condition.
It is a cause of considerable morbidity and social embarrassment.
Cutaneous horns are hard, yellowish gray cornified skin growths.
They are more common in white races and believed to be rare in Africans.
There are few case reports of the lesion in African populations in the English literature.
Although a variety of strategies have been employed for managing articular cartilage defects in the knee, overall outcomes have not been satisfactory.
An alternative option may be autologous chondrocyte transplantation (ACT).
However, as this method is still under investigation, here we assessed the efficacy of ACT for human knee defect cartilage repair.
Evidence exists for reciprocal effects of insulin and desacyl-ghrelin (DAG) concentration, but the association between different fatty acid saturation in high fat diet (HFD) and these hormones remain to be established.
To evaluate the impact of different sources of dietary fat and the level of fatty acid saturation on plasma insulin and DAG levels and also the association of DAG with insulin action this study was carried out.
Diabetes mellitus is a heterogeneous metabolic disorder characterized by hyperglycemia.
Studies showed paraoxonase activity, and vitamin C and A levels are decreased in diabetes.
This study aimed to determine the effect of omega-3 fatty acids on paraoxonase activity, vitamins C, A and E levels in type 2 diabetic patients.
Tinnitus is a sense of sound perception in absence of an external source which can affect life quality.
Different conditions may lead to tinnitus including metabolic disorders such as dyslipidemia.
This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of topical Royal Jelly (a worker honey bee product) on healing diabetic foot ulcers.
Hemodynamic deterioration is a common postoperative problem.
Intravenous nitroglycerin (NTG) is used for prevention of this complication.
Nitroglycerin has different doses and is primarily a vasodilator.
Post-transplant infection with polyoma viruses (BK and JC viruses) is an important cause of graft loss and nephropathy.
Regarding the chronic nature of CTTH and intolerance or side effects of drugs that are used for treatment, other methods of treatment such as Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) has been used as a convenient and available method for treatment and prevention of CTTH.
In the current study, we evaluated the efficacy of the imipramine versus TENS in the prevention of the CTTH as a prospective clinical trial.
The distinction between basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and trichoepithelioma (TE) may be very difficult in some cases because of the close similarities of these two lesions clinically and histopathologically.
The purpose of this study is to investigate the usefulness of CD10 in distinguishing BCC and TE.
This study was carried out to analyze the relationship between clinical factors and velopharyngeal closure (VPC) in cleft palate patients.
We studied the antioxidant effects of fresh juice and peel extract of Citrus aurantifolia (Christm).
Type D personality characterized by global traits including negative affectivity and social inhibition has been proposed to be related to HRQoL.
It is a well-known fact that there is increased oxidative stress and decreased serum antioxidant levels in smokers than in non-smokers.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder in women.
Its presentation is that of irregular menstruation associated with ovulation defects.
Because of adverse outcomes such as metabolic and cardiovascular disorders, its diagnosis and treatment is very important.
Recent findings suggest that production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as Tumour Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-), is increased in the brain tissue of patients suffering late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) and play an important role in the pathogenesis of this disease.
Several epidemiological studies also suggest that patients taking anti-inflammatory drugs have a decreased risk of developing AD.
TNF- is an important pro inflammatory cytokine that is unregulated in Alzheimer's patients.
Functional polymorphisms in tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) can affect immune response, inflammation, tissue injury and possibly the susceptibility to Alzheimer disease (AD).
The aim of this study was to compare outcomes of open reduction and rigid internal fixation of displaced calcaneal fractures with that of non operative treatment.
Relationship between premature menopause and presence, severity and life-threatening events of coronary artery disease (CAD) has been suggested in recent observations.
In vitro and in vivo antileishmanial activities of crude hydroalcoholic extract of peganum harmala seeds were investigated against Leishmania major.
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women.
Surgical treatment of breast cancer may cause body image alterations.
There are controversial evidences on the association between fingerprint traits and schizophrenia.
Applying an effective management system in emergency incidents provides maximum efficiency with using minimum facilities and human resources.
Hospital Emergency Incident Command System (HEICS) is one of the most reliable emergency incident command systems to make hospitals more efficient and to increase patient safety.
BRAC, an indigenous non-governmental development organization (NGO), has been implementing a programme to prevent and control malaria in the 13 malaria-endemic districts of Bangladesh since 2007.
One of the critical preventive interventions is the distribution of insecticidal bed nets (long-lasting insecticide-treated nets, LLINs and insecticide-treated ordinary nets, ITNs) to the community free of cost.
This study aimed to assess progress in the possession, preferential use, and knowledge on use of the LLIN/ITNs including the programme's avowed pro-poor inclination one and three and half years after intervention began.
Luteal phase support in assisted reproductive technology (ART) cycles is still controversial.
The present study was conducted to evaluate the effect of adding oral oestradiol to progesterone during ART cycles.
Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) is a critical medical problem in about 0.5-2% of women.
The molecular genetic background for spontaneous abortion is being increasingly understood, and some polymorphisms associated with it have been reported.
Herein we describe the efficiency of utilizing the post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU) as an intermediate intensive care facility for those patients.
Many physiological changes of breast elasticity depend on the age, hormonal status, menstrual cycle and many others.
Two functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene, C677T and A1298C, lead to decreased enzyme activity and affect chemosensitivity of tumour cells.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the anorectal functions of prostate cancer patients who have undergone radical perineal prostatectomy (RPP) or radical retropubic prostatectomy (RRP) surgery.
An analysis of long term voice quality outcomes of two different types of surgical intervention for Tis and T1 glottic carcinoma: laryngofissure conventional cordectomy and endoscopic laser CO(2) cordectomy, with or without additional radiation therapy.
The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical, microbiological and immunological effects of subgingival irrigation with Dentol() and 0.2% chlorhexidine in human advanced periodontitis.
Transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1) has a crucial role in collagen synthesis and fibrosis.
TGF-1 can be antagonized and/or reduced by the action of certain agents.
We propose to identify the role of decorin in treatment of tubular and interstitial fibrosis and in the inhibition of TGF-1 in an acute ischaemic kidney.
There is accumulating clinical evidence that acute liver failure may be regularly associated with myocardial injury.
To test this hypothesis in a standardized experimental setting, we used two porcine models of ALF.
Ultrasound has proven to be an important therapeutic resource regarding musculoskeletal disease and is routinely used in physical therapy and medicine both therapeutically and diagnostically.
The aim of the present study was to analyse the effects with different ultrasound intensities in order to establish the ideal radiation level in cell cultures.
Proximal spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a common autosomal recessively inherited neuromuscular disorder.
It is caused by homozygous absence of the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether SMN2 expression can be increased by caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid and curcumin, which are designed by modifications of the carboxylic acid class of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors.
Recently, a novel protein, follicular dendritic cell secreted protein (FDC-SP), has been identified in human periodontal ligament (PDL) tissue and a biomolecular study suggested that the expression of FDC-SP might be associated with the expression of the PDL phenotype.
mtDNA defects, both deletions and point mutations, have been associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathies.
The aim of this study was to establish a spectrum for mtDNA mutations in Iranian hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) patients.
Previous studies have shown that obese individuals have reduced natriuretic peptide levels.
Chromium is shown to improve carbohydrate and lipid metabolism.
Conflicting data on effects of chromium supplementation in humans are published.
The aim of the study was to assess the concentrations of serum chromium during the 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in obese persons.
The role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) is not clear as increased activation of MMPs in the vasculature contrasts with decreased activity of MMPs in the kidneys, contributing to development of nephropathy.
The aim of the present study was to analyse patients' knowledge in the field of neoplastic prophylaxis.
An accurate estimation of prognosis is very important for haemorrhagic stroke patients.
Impairment of motor function caused by pyramidal tract injury is common in these patients.
Despite the several definitions of poor response, it is still a matter of debate whether young poor responder patients also show a decrease in oocyte quality.
Mental retardation (MR) has heterogeneous aetiology mostly with genetic causes.
Functional alterations of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene (CFTR) increase the viscoelasticity of pulmonary secretions of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients and require the use of therapeutic aerosols.
The biochemical properties of exocrine secretions are influenced by the expression of the FUT2 gene which determine the secretor and non-secretor phenotypes of the ABH glycoconjugates.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) is a xenobiotic metabolising enzyme (XME), which may modify susceptibility in certain ethnic groups, showing ethnic dependent polymorphism.
To construct a eukaryotic expression vector of the tumour suppressor in lung cancer 1 (TSLC1) gene, so as to explore the mechanisms of tumour suppression of the gene theoretically.
Nucleotide 1311 polymorphism at exon 11 of the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) gene is fairly common in various populations worldwide, especially among Mediterranean populations.
In this study, 1311 polymorphism in G6PD-deficient cases was identified by microarray technique.
In this study we aimed to investigate whether adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) can be used for peripheral nerve repair.
Surgical repair of an aortic aneurysm might be complicated by spinal cord injury and paraplegia.
Since -adrenoreceptor agonists showed neuroprotective effects, the study was designed to investigate the effect of clenbuterol on post-aortic clamping paraplegia and to identify if there is hyperemia associated with paraplegia.
We explored the protective effects of total glucosides of paeony (TGP) and the underlying mechanisms in carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced experimental liver injury in mice.
Calcium ions are vital in many biological processes and qualify as an almost ubiquitous intracellular second messenger.
This indicates the multiplicity of the effects associated with drug actions aimed at interfering with calcium ions.
The aim of the research was to assess whether concentrations of inflammatory markers in blood of patients after cardiac arrest (CA) are related to their clinical state and survival.
The PROSPECT trial reported no single echocardiographic measurement of dyssynchrony is recommended to improve patient selection for cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT).
While some studies have indicated that alcohol intake is associated with a decreased risk of renal cell carcinoma, others have not.
We conducted a meta-analysis of case-control studies to provide a quantitative assessment of the association between alcohol intake and the risk of renal cell carcinoma.
Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) has been recently proved useful in the quantitation of chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Hypoadiponectinaemia is an important risk factor for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
However, little is known about its role in the Chinese population.
In Asian countries compared with Western countries the incidence is a bit lower.
The aim of this study was to compare the postoperative analgesic efficacy of epidural ropivacaine 0.15%, levobupivacaine 0.15% and ropivacaine 0.15% plus fentanyl 2 g/ml, used with a patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) device after Caesarean section.
We assessed quality and spread of analgesia and anaesthesia, postoperative analgesic requirement and side effects.
The International Society for Clinical Densitometry recommended that the lumbar spine and total body less head (TBLH) are the most accurate and reproducible skeletal sites for performing areal bone mineral density (BMD) measurements.
Cigarette smoking is related to many pathological conditions; however, chemical substances affect the oral cavity first, so it is important to consider its influence on oral mucosa and oral potentially pre-malignant lesions.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of smoking on microvessel density in oral lichen planus.
The primary goal of lipid-lowering therapy is the attainment of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) target levels.
The aim of this study was to compare the safety and lipid-lowering efficacy of doubling the standard statin dose (STAT2) to that of co-administering ezetimibe 10 mg/day (EZE+statin) in Canadian patients at high CAD risk with persistent hyperlipidemia upon statin treatment.
Recent evidence suggests an interaction between bone metabolism and blood pressure (BP) regulation.
The aim of our study was to evaluate endocrinological and metabolic factors related to pulse pressure (PP) in normotensive, normolipidaemic, non-smoker subjects.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are an important link between innate and adaptive immunity.
N-3 Polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) exert clinical beneficial effects in patients after acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
However, their exact mechanisms of action are not well recognized yet.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome (MetS), is common and accounts for 80% of cases of elevated liver function tests (LFTs).
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia.
Diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) is a frequent complication of diabetes mellitus and has a negative impact on the cardiovascular system.
The aim of the study was to assess the relation of baseline mechanical dyssynchrony with the left ventricular end-systolic volume (LVESV) decrease following cardiac resynchronization (CRT) therapy introduction.
The use of an automated biopsy device and real-time ultrasound (current technology) for percutaneous renal biopsies (PRBs) has improved the likelihood of obtaining adequate tissue for diagnosis and has reduced the complications associated with renal biopsies.
The aim is assesing compliance of VIT practice in Poland with the current European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) guidance.
Induced sputum is widely used in clinical practice and scientific studies.
This technique has become enormously useful in assessment of airway inflammation.
However, some asthmatics are unable to expectorate sputum of sufficient quality and quantity necessary for further processing, therefore not providing reliable results.
Migraine can cause headache in different communities so that 12-15% are suffering worldwide.
Recently the relationship between infectious diseases such as Helicobacter pylori infection and migraine headache has been the focus of many studies.
The current study was designed to evaluate IgG and IgM antibodies to H. pylori in patients suffering from migraine headaches.
The Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) is a widely used screening instrument in neuropsychological assessment and is a brief, individually administered measure.
The present study aims to assess the reliability and validity of the Chinese version of the RBANS in community-dwelling elderly.
The aim of study is comparing the haemostatic properties of conventional monopolar resection (TURP) and bipolar transurethral resection in saline (TURIS) of the prostate in patients under chronic oral anticoagulants.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex, multifactor autoimmune disease.
The studies on aetiopathogenesis of autoimmune diseases focus on the impact the genetically conditioned impairment of xenobiotic metabolism may exert.
The knowledge of oxidation polymorphism in the course of SLE may be helpful in choosing more efficient and safer therapy.
We determined whether there was an association between susceptibility to SLE and particularly to CYP2D6 genotypes.
The analysis of the upper massif of the craniofacial (UMC) is widely used in many fields of science.
The aim of the study was to create a high resolution computer system based on a digital information record and on vector graphics, that could enable dimension measuring and evaluation of craniofacial shape using the radial method.
The renin-angiotensin system plays a major role in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome.
The objective of this study was to examine the effects of aliskiren, a direct renin inhibitor, on the metabolic syndrome of fructose-fed rats.
Skin aging may occur as a result of increased free radicals in the body.
Vitamin E, the major chain-breaking antioxidant, prevents propagation of oxidative stress, especially in biological membranes.
The dynamic development of biobanks causes some ethical, social, and legal problems.
The most discussed problems are obtaining informed consent, especially for future research, from minors and from deceased people.
The aim of this article is to present the current standards held by Polish biobanks concerning obtaining a participant's informed consent in some aspects.
Conjugation of human and animal hemoglobins with polyethylene glycol has been widely explored as a means to develop blood substitutes, a novel pharmaceutical class to be used in surgery or emergency medicine.
These recent findings call for the biotechnological development of stable, low-affinity PEGylated hemoglobins with low NO dioxygenase reactivity.
Consequences of antivenom administration can include acute and delayed reactions, dependent, in part, on the antivenom's donor source, purity, and composition.
This study evaluated an equine-derived polyvalent F(ab')(2) pit viper antivenom in healthy dogs of various size, age, and breed under controlled conditions.
Dogs were allocated into 6 treatment groups (n = 10 per group) based on weight (3 weight groups) and dose (2 dose groups) and administered F(ab')(2) antivenom over 1 hour by IV infusion.
All 3 dogs were homozygous for the ABCB1-1 gene mutation.
Serum ivermectin concentrations confirmed ivermectin exposure in each case.
All 3 dogs exhibited tremors, ptyalism, and central nervous system depression, which progressed over several hours to stupor in 2 dogs, and to a comatose state requiring mechanical ventilation in the remaining dog.
No change was observed in the neurologic status of any patient.
Tabes dorsalis is a late manifestation of untreated syphilis that is characterized by ataxia, lancinating pains, and urinary incontinence.
A form of tertiary syphilis or neurosyphilis, it is the result of slow, progressive degeneration of the nerve cells in the  spinal cord.
Few validated instruments exist to measure pediatric code team skills.
The goal of this study was to develop an instrument for the assessment of resuscitation competency and self-appraisal using multirater and gap analysis methodologies.
Health care continues to expand in scope and in complexity.
In this changing environment, residents are challenged with understanding its intricacies and the impact it will have on their professional activities and careers.
Residency program directors are challenged to effectively teach and assess the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education's (ACGME) 6 competencies.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the morbidity and mortality (M&amp;M) conference as a cost-effective and efficient approach for addressing the ACGME competencies through evaluation of resident participation and case diversity.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Learning Portfolio is recommended as a tool to develop and document reflective, practice-based learning and improvement.
There is no consensus regarding the appropriate content of a learning portfolio in medical education.
These requirements have generated controversy among medical educators, with some expressing concern that reducing resident hours may limit clinical exposure and competency, particularly in surgical specialties.
Some of the most serious consequences of normal ageing relate to its effects on skeletal muscle, particularly significant wasting and associated weakness, termed "sarcopenia".
The underlying mechanisms of sarcopenia have yet to be elucidated completely but an altered muscle inflammatory response after injury is a likely contributing factor.
In this paper, we report the case of a patient with an arachnoid cyst who developed an extradural hematoma after a subtle head injury.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network's (NCCN) palliative care (PC) guidelines recommend screening all patients for PC issues at the first visit with their oncologist and at subsequent, clinically relevant times.
We evaluated the feasibility of screening for PC needs in outpatients attending one GI oncology practice specializing in colorectal cancer and neuroendocrine tumors.
Lung protective ventilation (LPV) has been shown to improve survival and the duration of mechanical ventilation in acute lung injury (ALI) patients.
Mortality of ALI may vary by gender, which could result from treatment variability.
Whether gender is associated with the use of LPV is not known.
Recent efforts to increase insurance coverage have revealed limits in primary care capacity, in part due to physician maldistribution.
Of interest to policymakers and educators is the impact of nontraditional curricula, including global health education, on eventual physician location.
We sought to measure the association between graduate medical education in global health and subsequent care of the underserved in the United States.
However, reports of resident resistance to peer evaluation because of confidentiality issues and the possible impact on their working relationships raised concerns about the acceptability and utility of peer evaluation in graduate medical education.
The literature suggests that peers are able to reliably assess communication, interpersonal skills, and professionalism and provide input that may differ from faculty evaluations.
This study assessed the attitudes of internal medicine residents 1year after the implementation of a peer-evaluation system.
Recent focus on resident work hours has challenged residency programs to modify their curricula to meet established duty hour restrictions and fulfill their mission to develop the next generation of clinicians.
Simultaneously, health care systems strive to deliver efficient, high-quality care to patients and families.
The primary goal of this observational study was to use a data-driven approach to eliminate examples of waste and variation identified in resident rounding using Lean Six Sigma methodology.
The admissions process for residency encompasses numerous objective and subjective measurements by which an applicant is evaluated.
The personal interview and clinical evaluations are widely considered the most reliable method to identify unwanted behavioral characteristics.
However, the role of a personal statement is less clear.
While many programs educate residents about the effectiveness of care, little is known about how well residents and faculty know charges of diagnostic tests or both groups' interest in this topic.
Mock codes represent an opportunity to increase trainee education in acute resuscitations, and we designed a unique multidisciplinary mock code curriculum that uses senior pediatric residents as teachers.
High-reliability industries have provided a model using standardization of approach and interprofessional training, and both are particularly suited to the teaching and assessment of these life-saving skills.
The Infection Control Education project is a grant-funded, multi-institutional pilot launched to improve the teaching and assessment of HH/AT in our community.
Internal medicine (IM) residents who undergo simulation-based advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) training are significantly more likely to manage actual events according to American Heart Association (AHA) standards than nontrained residents.
How long ACLS skills are retained is unknown.
Incorporating public health principles into traditional residency education can give pediatricians the population-oriented perspective to address social determinants of health.
Our goal was to assess the impact of a standardized residency curriculum in ambulatory pediatrics on residents' participation, satisfaction, and confidence.
These duties lay the groundwork that prepares chief residents to assume future leadership positions.
One barrier to systematically assessing feedback about the content or format of teaching conferences in graduate medical education is the time needed to collect and analyze feedback data.
Minute papers, brief surveys designed to obtain feedback in a concise format, have the potential to fill this gap.
Residents play a tremendous role in educating medical students and other residents during their training.
Many residency programs have thus instituted formal instruction on teaching.
This 5-year study was conducted to quantitatively evaluate the impact of a teaching rotation on residents' attitudes towards teaching.
Resident continuity clinics face particular challenges in scheduling patient follow-up because of residents' complex schedules and limited time in clinic.
One of the options discussed in literature recently being distraction osteogenesis.
Oral cancer is one of the most common cancers and it constitutes a major health problem particularly in developing countries.
Tobacco and alcohol consumption appears to be the major determinants of oral cancer.
Reports of long-term incidence trends of endemic diarrhea-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome (D+HUS) are few and inconclusive.
Interventions for obese adolescents in real-world, clinical settings need to be evaluated because most weight management care occurs in this context.
But the design of large proteins is very challenging due to the large combinatorial sequence space to be explored and the lack of a suitable selection system to guide the evolution and optimization.
One way to approach this challenge is to use computational design methods based on the current crystallographic data and on molecular mechanics.
We have used a laccase protein fold as a scaffold to design a new protein sequence that would adopt a 3D conformation in solution similar to a wild-type protein, the Trametes versicolor (TvL) fungal laccase.
Laccases are multi-copper oxidases that find utility in a variety of industrial applications.
Prokaryotic laccases have been identified with some desirable features, but they often exhibit low redox potentials.
The designed sequence (DLac) shares a 50% sequence identity to the original TvL protein.
The new DLac gene was overexpressed in E. coli and the majority of the protein was found in inclusion bodies.
Both soluble protein and refolded insoluble protein were purified, and their identity was verified by mass spectrometry.
Neither protein exhibited the characteristic T1 copper absorbance, neither bound copper by atomic absorption, and neither was active using a variety of laccase substrates over a range of pH values.
Circular dichroism spectroscopy studies suggest that the DLac protein adopts a molten globule structure that is similar to the denatured and refolded native fungal TvL protein, which is significantly different from the natively secreted fungal protein.
Taken together, these results indicate that the computationally designed DLac expressed in E. coli is unable to utilize the same folding pathway that is used in the expression of the parent TvL protein or the prokaryotic laccases.
This sequence can be used going forward to help elucidate the sequence requirements needed for prokaryotic multi-copper oxidase expression.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11693-011-9080-9) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
The GAL regulatory system is highly conserved in yeast species of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Kluyveromyces lactis.
While the GAL system is a well studied system in S. cerevisiae, the dynamic behavior of the KlGAL system in K. lactis has not been characterized.
Here, we have characterized the GAL system in yeast K. lactis by developing a dynamic model and comparing its performance to its not-so-distant cousin S. cerevisiae.
The present analysis demonstrates the significance of the autoregulatory feedbacks due to KlGal4p, KlGal80p, KlGal1p and Lac12p on the dynamic performance of the KlGAL switch.
The model predicts the experimentally observed absence of bistability in the wild type strain of K. lactis, unlike the short term memory of preculturing conditions observed in S. cerevisiae.
The performance of the GAL switch is distinct for the two yeast species although they share similarities in the molecular components.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11693-011-9082-7) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Though not all oral carcinomas are preceded by premalignant lesions as clinically visible morphological alterations occur secondary to the cellular or molecular changes, certain high risk lesions have been identified.
Their management remains controversially polarized between surgical excision to prevent malignant change and conservative medical or surveillance techniques.
In this article, we have briefly discussed the common premalignant lesions, with an emphasis on their evidence based management and prevention.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12262-011-0286-6) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
The treatment of late-presenting developmental dislocation of the hip (DDH) is still controversial.
A consecutive series of 32 patients not previously treated (43 hips, Tnnis grade 3 or 4) underwent progressive closed reduction followed immediately by innominate osteotomy between 1964 and 1976.
They were between 1.5 and 5years old at the time of pelvic osteotomy.
Furthermore, little is known on the interval between the recurrent surgeries and the factors that lead to early recurrence.
We also aimed to determine the predisposing factors for early recurrence.
Cervical radiculopathy (CR) is a clinical condition frequently encountered in the physical therapy clinic.
Cervical radiculopathy is a result of space occupying lesions in the cervical spine: either cervical disc herniations, spondylosis, or osteophytosis.
These affect the pain generators of bony and ligamentous tissues, producing radicular symptoms (i.e.
AIMS #ENTITYSTARTX00026;
Abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) is the commonest presenting symptom in gynaecology out-patient department.
Endometrial sampling could be effectively used as the first diagnostic step in AUB, although at times, its interpretation could be quite challenging to the practicing pathologists.
Ventilators for home use, manual and mechanically assisted coughing techniques, and the services of in-home respiratory therapists are options for youth with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD).
Evidence supports the use of these modalities, but there seems to be few youth who are receiving these therapies.
Is there a knowledge transfer issue?
Is there a lack of resources?
What is the best way to discuss the issues?
What do youth and parents want?
Despite notable advances in neonatal care, bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) remains an important complication of preterm birth, frequently resulting in prolonged hospital stay and long-term morbidity.
Health care video recording has demonstrated value in education, performance assessment, quality improvement and clinical care.
Resident education involves didactics and pedagogic strategies using a variety of tools and technologies in order to improve critical thinking skills.
Debating is used in educational settings to improve critical thinking skills, but there have been no reports of its use in residency education.
The present paper describes the use of debate to teach resident physicians about health care reform.
Scholarly activity as a component of residency education is becoming increasingly emphasized by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.
The nationwide decline in pediatric admissions to community hospitals threatens the sustainability of small pediatric residency programs.
Little is known about the response of small programs to this challenge.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) core competencies are used to assess resident performance, and recently similar competencies have become an accepted framework for evaluating medical student achievements as well.
However, the utility of incorporating the competencies into the resident application has not yet been assessed.
Yet, many internal medicine residency program graduates feel unprepared to perform these procedures.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of a structured peer-assisted learning approach to improve residents' knowledge and skills related to common dermatologic assessment techniques.
Understanding patient safety events and causative factors is an important step in reducing preventable adverse events.
This workshop reinforced the importance of effective communication and supervision in patient safety.
We aimed to describe overall interest in and career intentions toward global health among interns.
Structured continuity clinical experience is required in all primary care residency programs.
The US Preventive Services Task Force and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend that physicians screen patients for obesity and practice counseling interventions to achieve modest (4%-8%) weight loss.
Despite this, physicians frequently do not document obesity and/or counsel on weight loss.
Our goal was to develop an innovative, easily disseminated workshop to improve resident physicians' skills and confidence in weight-loss counseling.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requires annual surveys of residency programs.
The objective of this study was to determine the extent of interest in international electives among prospective otolaryngology residents and to determine whether the availability of international electives affected students' interest in ranking a particular residency program.
A new generation of medical students is seeking residency programs offering global health education (GHE), and there is growing awareness of the benefits this training provides.
However, basic factors that have an impact on its implementation and its effect on the residency match are insufficiently understood.
The purpose of this study was to explore the extent of online information on GHE available to potential US pediatric residency program applicants.
Maxillofacial surgery is one of the most rapidly expanding specialities in India.
This paper attempts to find out the awareness of the speciality in India.
which are surely eliminated by the intraoral reduction and rigid fixation.
Lignocaine hydrochloride is the most widely used and easily available local anaesthetic agent.
New therapies for asthma which can address three main interrelated features of the disease, airway inflammation, airway remodeling and airway hyperreactivity, are urgently required.
Resveratrol, a well known red wine polyphenol has received much attention due to its potential anti-aging properties.
This compound is an agonist of silent information regulator two histone deacetylases and has many effects that are relevant to key aspects of the pathophysiology of asthma including inflammation, cell proliferation and fibrosis.
Therefore, resveratrol may offer a novel asthma therapy that simultaneously inhibits airway inflammation, and airway remodeling which are the main contributors to airway hyperreactivity and irreversible lung function loss.
Complex hand trauma presents multifaceted problems for the surgeon.
The injured areas include: dorsum of the hand (10 cases), the wrist (3 cases) and the dorsal thumb (2 cases).
All flaps survived completely and none exhibited venous compromise.
All donor sites were skin grafted.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12593-011-0042-y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Genioplasty is often performed to esthetically improve patient's profiles in the lower facial third.
Many factors account for the variability in soft tissue response like dissection technique, magnitude and direction of movement and stability of the genial segment.
Ultrasonically, abnormal liquor volume was confirmed in 90-93% clinically suspected patients.
Post term pregnancy (38.5%), PROM (30%) and prolonged pregnancy (23.5%) were associated with oligohydramnios.
Fetal congenital anomalies (31.1%), diabetes mellitus (20%), PIH (17.7%), twin pregnancy (6.6%) and Rh incompatibility (4.4%) were associated with polyhydramnios.
Premature labour complicated 40% of polyhydramnios pregnancies.
Ventilator-induced lung injury is a recognized risk factor for bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
Guidelines recommend supportive care for all newborns &gt;26 weeks' gestational age and recognize the importance of prenatal consultation by a neonatalogist for mothers at risk of premature delivery.
The literature regarding parents' perspectives of prenatal consultation is lacking.
Cell cycle is the central process that regulates growth and division in all eukaryotes.
Based on the environmental condition sensed, the cell lies in a resting phase G0 or proceeds through the cyclic cell division process (G1SG2M).
These series of events and phase transitions are governed mainly by the highly conserved Cyclin dependent kinases (Cdks) and its positive and negative regulators.
The cell cycle regulation of fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe is modeled in this study.
The study exploits a detailed molecular interaction map compiled based on the published model and experimental data.
There are accumulating evidences about the prominent regulatory role of specific phosphatases in cell cycle regulations.
The current study emphasizes the possible role of multiple phosphatases that governs the cell cycle regulation in fission yeast S. pombe.
The ability of the model to reproduce the reported regulatory profile for the wild-type and various mutants was verified though simulations.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11693-011-9090-7) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
The human cytomegalovirus and elongation factor 1 promoters are constitutive promoters commonly employed by mammalian expression vectors.
These promoters generally produce high levels of expression in many types of cells and tissues.
To generate a library of synthetic promoters capable of generating a range of low, intermediate, and high expression levels, the TATA and CAAT box elements of these promoters were mutated.
Other promoter variants were also generated by random mutagenesis.
Evaluation using plasmid vectors integrated at a single site in the genome revealed that these various synthetic promoters were capable of expression levels spanning a 40-fold range.
Retroviral vectors were equipped with the synthetic promoters and evaluated for their ability to reproduce the graded expression demonstrated by plasmid integration.
A vector with a self-inactivating long terminal repeat could neither reproduce the full range of expression levels nor produce stable expression.
Using a second vector design, the different synthetic promoters enabled stable expression over a broad range of expression levels in different cell lines.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11693-011-9089-0) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Many biological processes are regulated by changing the concentration and activity of proteins.
The presence of a protein at a given subcellular location at a given time with a certain conformation is the result of an apparently sequential process.
We conclude that advances in experimental techniques leading to a detailed description of the process have not been matched by mathematical models that represent the details of the process and facilitate analysis.
Such an exercise is the first step towards development of a framework for a systems biology analysis of the protein production process.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11693-011-9088-1) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
However, there is paucity of literature on some of these indices from our area.
It potentially poses procedural difficulty to the endodontist and may also be a marker of an underlying systemic condition.
Female genital mutilation is known to exist especially in many third world countries including Nigeria with many women being victims of this harmful practice and its complications.
The practice is rife in Southeast Nigeria and efforts have been made to discourage it.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) is a commonly used food additive and there is growing concern that excitotoxins such as MSG play a critical role in the development of several hepatic disorders.
Menopause alters the physiological, biochemical and psychological environment of a woman.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) is a commonly used food additive and there is growing concern that this may play a critical role in the aethiopathogenesis of anovulatory infertility.
Neonatal malaria was thought to be uncommon, even in malaria endemic areas.
Dialium guineense is a medicinal plant used by some communities of Enugu-Ezike in Enugu State, Nigeria for treatment of fever, headache and other diverse ailments.
However, neurologists are few and unevenly spread in the country.
This raises a serious concern considering the enormous burden that neurological diseases may constitute in our environment.
There is no doubt that micronutrient deficiency is common in our environment.
Replacements have thus been instituted without adequate information on specific and peculiar micronutrient needs of our people.
Zinc is an essential micronutrient which is prone to maternal depletion during pregnancy and lactation.
Unfortunately, studies in that regard in Nigeria has received diminutive interest.
In spite of remarkable improvement in the safety of anaesthesia and surgical techniques, caesarean section has higher risks of maternal death when compared with normal vaginal delivery.
It is commonly assumed that preterm babies are malnourished and this has led to all forms of micronutrient supplementation including iron.
Dental implantology is fast becoming a specialty in the field of dentistry.
Within the last five decades, dentistry appears to have recorded its most significant advancement in the field of dental implantology.
With dental implants, missing teeth can now be replaced with stable, comfortable and natural-looking and feeling artificial replacements.
Pre-anaesthetic evaluation is a basic component of safe anaesthetic practice and ends with the establishment of an anaesthetic plan of action for individual patients.
Multiple sclerosis is a rare neurological disorder in black Africans.
In Nigeria it had been difficult to confirm suspected cases due to the paucity of diagnostic facilities.
The availability of magnetic resonance imaging has enabled an increased confidence in making the diagnosis.
Cleistopholis patens (Cp) (Annonacae) is a popular medicinal herb used in the the treatment of cardiovascular disorders in Nigerian ethnomedicine.
There is growing evidence that excess generation of highly reactive free radicals, largely due to hyperglycaemia causes oxidative stress, which further exacerbates the development and progression of type 2 diabetes and its complications.
Obesity in pregnancy has continued to attract global attention due to its contribution to maternal morbidity and mortality.
However, this attention appears to be concentrated on developed countries with little or no attention to developing countries, resulting in very little statistics from developing countries on the subject matter.
It is unclear whether this is due to low prevalence or poor awareness of the condition.
Diabetes mellitus has remained a significant contributor to morbidities and mortalities in our environment despite all efforts to curb the trend.
Regrettably, conventional, orthodox hypoglycemic agents have remained unaffordable.
Intestinal helminthiasis is common in our environment and antihelminthic drugs are specie specific.
Thus, need to identify and characterize the species cannot be overemphasized.
Sleep is a very vital physiological mechanism, which involves complex interactions in the nervous system.
These interactions are not well understood and have been a subject of controversy in contemporary medical practice.
Irrational prescription and use of vitamins is rife in our society today.
Cholecalciferol has remained a component of some routine antenatal drugs despite the fears that have been expressed concerning its safety.
Case cancellation can be very distressing not only to the patient and relatives but also to health care professionals.
Herbal medication is commonly employed in treatment of diseases.
Aqueous extract of Azadirachta indica leaf (A. indica) is commonly used in treatment of malaria by Nigerians.
Perinatal mortality is one of the essential indicators of the health status of a country and by extension its state of development.
Reduction in perinatal mortality rate is an important aspect of the MDGs.
Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) is a recognized concern within the context of occupational and general health.
However, noise levels are seldom studied at nonworkplace and nonabode sites that are visited regularly, e.g., places of worship.
The purpose of this study was to assess the noise levels inside and outside of mosque prayer rooms and to compare the levels with established noise tolerance limits.
: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has emerged as a potential alternative for surgery in clinical oncology.
This animal experiment was conducted to evaluate the feasibility, safety, and effectiveness of transbronchial RFA in the treatment of lung tumor.
: Diagnosis of lung cancer is achieved by fine-needle aspiration (FNA) techniques such as computed tomography-guided FNA and transbronchial needle aspiration.
The purpose of this study was to establish an optimal storing method for molecular testing in FNA samples.
: Neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet laser used during bronchoscopy has been effective in treating airway obstruction.
Other lasers with different properties have not been well described during bronchoscopy.
The neodymium:yttrium-aluminum-perovskite (Nd:YAP) laser has different characteristics than the Neodymium: yttrium aluminum garnet laser.
We report our experience of interventional bronchoscopy with regard to complications and survival.
: Samples obtained by endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) have been shown to be useful for molecular analysis.
: Histologic specimens obtained by endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) often provide valuable information for diagnosis or management decisions; however, little has been reported about the sampling yield.
Besides the conventional 22-gauge needle, a 21-gauge needle is now available for this procedure.
The purpose of this study was to elucidate and compare the respective histologic specimen retrieval yields of EBUS-TBNA using 21-gauge and 22-gauge needles.
It has previously been demonstrated that samples obtained using endobronchial ultrasound fine-needle aspiration (EBUS-FNA) are adequate for this analysis.
This is the first report on the use of EBUS-FNA specimens for analysis of the epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathway.
Normal LN anatomy includes the presence of a central intranodal blood vessel (CIV) that can be obliterated with invasion of malignant cells.
We sought to determine whether examining LNs for the presence or absence of a CIV during endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) could predict benign or malignant cytology of the samples obtained.
: We designed a double-lumen endotracheal tube (the EZ [Easy] Tracheostomy [EZT]) to enable a single operator to safely perform percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) at the bedside while providing continuous bronchoscopic guidance.
The EZT design also aims to ensure uninterrupted mechanical ventilation during most of the PDT procedure via a secure airway.
End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) is a global public health problem.
In order to understand current situation in Puerto Rico (PR) we review available data, which is presented in a descriptive report of the incidence, prevalence and mortality of ESRD during the period 2000-2008.
In addition, we compare the incidence and prevalence rates with regard to other countries.
Our objective was to examine readmission rates and whether hospitals with high and low readmission rates at baseline remain outliers in subsequent years.
Generally, residents do not achieve the same physical ability level as before their fracture and have an increased risk of death within few days after discharge.
Surgical education is continually expanding to encompass new techniques and technologies.
There is limited information in the literature on the outcomes and complications in elderly patients who sustain high-energy hip fractures.
The purpose of this study was to analyze the outcomes and complications in patients aged 65 years or older, who sustained a high-energy proximal femur fracture.
One goal in EMR development should be to facilitate a patient-centered clinical encounter.
Much prior EMR development has focused on capturing objective data, such as laboratory values and medication lists.
Less attention has been devoted to the more complex task of capturing and analyzing data that incorporates the patient's concerns and preferences.
Emergency Department (ED) overcrowding is an important healthcare issue facing increasing public and regulatory scrutiny in Canada and around the world.
Many approaches to alleviate excessive waiting times and lengths of stay have been studied.
In theory, optimal ED patient flow may be assisted via balancing patient loads between EDs (in essence spreading patients more evenly throughout this system).
This investigation utilizes simulation to explore "Crowdinforming" as a basis for a process control strategy aimed to balance patient loads between six EDs within a mid-sized Canadian city.
Long head biceps (LHB) tendinopathy is a common cause of anterior shoulder pain.
Isolated LHB pathology is most common among younger people who practise overhead sports.
The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) consists of two bundles, the anteromedial (AM) and posterolateral bundle (PM).
Double bundle reconstructions appear to give better rotational stability.
The usual technique is to make two tunnels in the femur and two in the tibia.
This is difficult and in small knees may not even be possible.
We have developed a foreign material free press fit fixation for double bundle ACL reconstruction using a single femoral tunnel ((R)).
This is based on the ALL PRESS FIT ACL reconstruction.
It is suitable for the most common medium and, otherwise difficult, small sizes of knees.
This care delivery method drives the clinic closer to the PCMH and toward the Accountable Care Organization (ACO) model.
The purpose of this analysis was to explore cancer screening rates across persistent poverty rural counties, with emphasis on nonwhite populations.
Anomalous aortic origin of a coronary artery (AAOCA), the anomalous coronary artery arises from an inappropriate coronary sinus and travels between the aorta and pulmonary artery.
Proper surgical management depends upon correct diagnosis and accurate characterization of the origin and course of the coronary artery.
Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) has been the mainstay for diagnosis, but magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomographic angiography (CTA) have been increasingly utilized.
Congenital absence of the thymus can lead to profound immunodeficiency, suggesting that thymic function during fetal development is essential to normal lymphocyte development.
How vital the thymus after birth is to human immune competence and regulation is not known.
Routine thymectomy, especially at an early age, may influence immunity, and therefore the risk of infection, autoimmunity, or malignancy.
Postoperative fever is common after cardiac surgery.
In the absence of documented infection, atelectasis is often suggested as a cause of postoperative fever.
However, this link is not well supported by pathophysiologic mechanisms.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether an association exists between atelectasis and postoperative fever in pediatric patients undergoing cardiac surgery.
Infants undergoing repair or palliation of congenital heart disease are at risk of renal insufficiency.
Development of renal insufficiency increases mortality.
This project seeks to determine whether intra- and postoperative renal near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) monitoring can reliably predict renal insufficiency after cardiac surgery in infants.
After surgical repair, presentation of severely impaired ventricular function and mitral regurgitation is a common finding.
The optimal management strategy for neonates with Ebstein's anomaly is unknown.
This analysis was undertaken to assess current trends in the management and prognosis of neonates born with Ebstein's anomaly in the United States, as reflected in an administrative database.
Medical residents, as part of their job to balance the demands of their work with caring for themselves so as to be mentally, emotionally, and physically sound to stay clinically competent.
While regulatory and legislative attempts at limiting medical resident work hours have materialized but have yet to attain passage, there are fairly little data looking into how residents cope up with their demands and yet attend to their own personal health.
However, it has not been established whether or not enhanced post-exercise ABI is also associated with endothelial dysfunction.
We hypothesized that a decrease in post-exercise ABI is related to impaired endothelial function.
The Drug and Poison Information Center (DPIC) at King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, was founded in 1983.
Since then it has responded adequately to queries from medical and non-medical callers from all over the Kingdom.
Queries ranged from simple material identification to poisoning cases.
Prescribing errors phenomena are very common within health care practice.
These errors could result in adverse events and harm to patients.
Pharmacist has an identified role in minimizing and preventing such errors.
Surgical approaches to the jugular foramen are often complex and lengthy procedures associated with significant morbidity based on the anatomic and tumor characteristics.
Accordingly, modifications in the surgical techniques have been developed to minimize these risks.
Preoperative embolization and intra-operative ligation of the external carotid artery have decreased the intraoperative blood loss.
Accurate identification and exposure of the cranial nerves extracranially allows for their preservation during tumor resection.
The modification of facial nerve mobilization provides widened infratemporal exposure with less postoperative facial weakness.
The ideal approach should enable complete, one stage tumor resection with excellent infratemporal and posterior fossa exposure and would not aggravate or cause neurologic deficit.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the psychological status of patients seeking rhinoplasty, compared with the general population.
Despite the increasing popularity of marathons, little research has examined the training habits of nonelite marathon runners.
With traditional treatment, successful conservative therapy usually incorporates major lifestyle alterations.
This manuscript discusses a novel approach known as "microperforation prolotherapy".
To illustrate the technique, the care of a patient who benefitted from this treatment is reviewed.
Rapid urbanization and unplanned population development can be detrimental to the safety of citizens, with children being a particularly vulnerable social group.
In this review, we assess childhood playground injuries and suggest safety mechanisms which could be incorporated into playground planning.
The purpose of this study was to define predictor variables for recreational male Ironman triathletes, using age and basic measurements of anthropometry, training, and previous performance to establish an equation for the prediction of an Ironman race time for future recreational male Ironman triathletes.
Circumcision can be performed for a variety of techniques, including conventional dissection surgery or a Plastibell device, and has religious, ritual, or medical roots.
In countries like Iran, circumcision is done purely on religious grounds.
The purpose of this study was to compare the risks and benefits of Mathieu repair of hypospadias with or without circumcision in consecutive operated cases.
The purpose of this research was review the epidemiology of the association of obesity and urinary incontinence, and to summarize the published data on the effect of weight loss on urinary incontinence.
Hormonal derangements potentially contribute to the diagnosis of infertility in over 60%-70% of couples investigated.
Use of hormonal and antihormonal agents has achieved great success in the treatment of male infertility.
In this post hoc analysis, the effect of incontinence severity on OTG-mediated improvement in continence was evaluated.
Ozzzzzzzair.
Despite attempts to control college-aged drinking, binge and underage drinking continues at colleges and universities.
Little information is available pertaining to college faculty drinking patterns, views on drinking, or their influence on college drinking.
What little information is available predates the economic crisis, mandates for increased alcohol education, and the American Pharmacists Association's call for increased alcohol awareness in pharmacists.
The use of multivitamins within a pharmaceutical setting has been the subject of considerable debate.
Bisphosphonates interfere with the mevalonate pathway and inhibit the prenylation of small GTP-binding proteins such as ras and rap.
Leukotrienes (LT) mediate allergic and inflammatory processes.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the expression of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) and LT receptors in gastric cancer (GC).
Pomalidomide is a distinct immunomodulatory agent that also displays anti-proliferative and proapoptotic activity.
Although obesity has been reported to be associated with decreased plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels, it is unknown whether the reduced BNP levels in obesity results from decreased left ventricular (LV) hemodynamic load.
Combination chemotherapy is highly effective in locally advanced breast cancer.
A negative expression of biomarker p53 indicates a higher chance of responding to this regimen.
Patients' p53 status may be used as a biological cancer marker to identify those who would benefit from more aggressive treatments.
Hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection is a vaccine-preventable disease.
Vasomotor flushes are common complaints of women during and after menopause, affecting about 75 percent of this population.
Estrogen therapy is the most effective treatment for hot flashes.
These women need alternative options.
The selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, venlafaxine and desvenlafaxine, have shown efficacy in alleviating hot flashes.
Open heart surgery is a procedure which warrants patient education about the complexity of drug regimens and lifestyle modifications.
Hazardous use of alcohol continues to be recognized as a problem at the university level.
Knowledge regarding alcohol consumption in healthcare professional students is limited, especially in regards to pharmacy students.
It is necessary to know correct treatment of these patients but there is a lack of evidence-based data regarding this age group, leading to an undertreatment based on a supposed lack of tolerance to radical treatments.
Paraneoplastic neurologic syndromes are not a direct consequence of neither primary tumor nor its metastasis.
They often parallel the course of the malignancy but may be the presenting sign of an occult cancer.
Sometimes it is very difficult to distinguish if it is a paraneoplastic syndrome or just a coincidence.
In the era of dose escalation, the choice of optimal patient immobilization plays an essential role in radiotherapy of prostate cancer.
Myxomas are benign neoplasms which can be found within large muscle groups.
Histologically, these neoplasms are composed of a few elongated or star-shaped cells lying in abundant mucoid stroma.
These tumours are characterized by expanding growth without forming distant metastases.
Accurate and reproducible patient set-up is a prerequisite to correctly deliver fractionated radiotherapy.
Various approaches are available to verify and correct patient setup for 3D image acquisition in a radiation treatment room.
Recent years have seen a search for new tracers to examine sentinel node as well as lymphatic network.
One of them is indocyanine green (ICG) visible in infrared light.
Adjuvant HT is probably one of the most effective radiation sensitizers known and works best when delivered simultaneously with radiation.
In breast conserving therapy, irradiation has to minimize the risk of local relapse within the treated breast, especially in an area of a tumor bed.
The investigated therapeutic option is an adjuvant single session of local HT (thermal boost) preceding standard CT-based multicatheter interstitial HDR brachytherapy boost in order to increase the probability of local cure.
CTT is a traditional method used for whole breast radiotherapy and includes standard wedged tangents (two opposed wedged tangential photon beams).
IMRT is a new technique for whole breast radiotherapy.
IMRT is used to improve conformity and homogeneity and used to reduce OAR doses.
Radiotherapy (RT) plays an important role in the multidisciplinary management of Ewing's Sarcoma (ES), especially in unresectable cases.
Stevens Johnson Syndrome and Erythema Multiforme are hypersensitivity skin reactions generally arising in the context of multiple causes.
Radiation therapy is considered to be one of these causes, although most reports are hindered by concomitant medications.
(1,2) Furthermore, the analysis of dicentric chromosomes observed in metaphases from peripheral lymphocytes is the routine technique used in case of acute exposures to assess radiation doses.
Hepatocyte growth factor plays an important role in tumor growth, metastasis and angiogenesis.
C-met is HGF's high affinity receptor.
As such, several groups have explored effectiveness of less radical therapeutic strategies that aim at bladder preservation.
Nonetheless, there is scarcity of reports assessing the applicability of urinary bladder-sparing outside developed countries.
Radiation technology is a discipline of medical science which deals with diagnostics, imaging and radiotherapy, that is treatment by ionizing radiation.
Sites such as the femoral head, the head of the humerus and the mandibula with restricted access to local blood supply are particularly vulnerable to osteonecrosis.
Management is based on proper diagnosis and treatment - conservative, pharmacological or surgical.
Radiotherapy has become an integral part of the therapeutic programme of cancer patients.
However, early and late after-effects of irradiation still constitute a significant issue in clinical practice.
Invasive lobular cancer (ILC) is biologically distinct from invasive ductal cancer and there is disagreement regarding appropriate local management of this disease.
This situation may be caused by micrometastases or isolated neoplastic cells in the lymphatic system which were not identified during a standard histopathological examination.
To estimate the prognosis and the effect of radiochemotherapy the postradiochemotherapeutical pathological features are important to assess.
Low-dose rate brachytherapy is a well established treatment modality of oral cancer.
Data about high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy are still sparse with various fractionation schedules and heterogeneous results.
RapidArc involves the variable dose rate, leaf speed and the gantry rotation.
The imager was studied for the effects like dose, dose rate, field size, leaf speed and sag during gantry rotation.
Wedge filters can be used as missing tissue compensators or wedge pairs to alter the shape of isodose curves so that two beams can be angled with a small hinge angle at a target volume without creating a hotspot.
Pelvic organs morbidity after irradiation of cancer patients remains a major problem although new technologies have been developed and implemented.
A relatively simple and suitable method for routine clinical practice is needed for preliminary assessment of normal tissue intrinsic radiosensitivity.
The treatment options for recurrent brain tumors in children previously irradiated are limited.
In orthovoltage radiotherapy, since the dose prescription at the patient's surface is based on the absolute dose calibration using water phantom, deviation of delivered dose is found as the heterogeneity such as bone present under the patient's surface.
The fundamental mechanisms behind the free market, such as competition, start applying also to the public health sector.
Health service providers are gradually realising that patients are actual clients of health care institutions, with physicians, nurses, supporting personnel, registration officers and other staff responding to patients demand for medical and auxiliary services (e.g.
exam registration, provision of information).
It is a period of highest productivity, when sexual sphere is an important aspect of life.
The disease, invasive treatment and its consequences interfere with this sphere.
Quality assessment of nutritional information on the internet may prove vital prior to providing public guidance on searching relative information.
Demographic profile and outcome can vary in pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) patients.
The aim of our study was to analyze demographic profile and outcome in a Greek PICU.
The clinical spectrum of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) includes components of the metabolic syndrome, such as central obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, arterial hypertension and, even, disturbances of the clotting mechanism.
All these disorders are epidemiologically related to cardiovascular disease, most probably through low-grade intravascular chronic inflammation.
Avoidable mortality (AM) refers to deaths from certain conditions considered avoidable given timely and effective health care.
Acinetobacter baumannii is responsible for a variety of nosocomial infections, especially in intensive care unit patients.
Nosocomial outbreaks due to carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii strains have been reported in many countries, including Greece.
Sacral nerve modulation (SNM) is an established and successful treatment for fecal incontinence.
We present the first successful case in Greece, performed in our department.
Progressive macular hypomelanosis (PMH) is a disease of unclear etiology.
Propionbacterium acnes (P. acnes) was claimed to be an etiological factor.
Basal cell carcinoma usually occurs in sun exposed areas of older male individuals.
Additional research is needed to examine the prevalence and burden of UI subtype including postmicturition incontinence, nocturnal enuresis, coital incontinence, and incontinence for unspecified reasons.
The growing demand for colonoscopies and inappropriate colonoscopies have become a significant problem for health care.
Previous studies showed that angiotensin (Ang) II and Ang-(1-7) concentrations were reduced in the implantation site at day 7 of pregnancy in Sprague-Dawley rats as compared to the site immediately adjacent to it, which does not have the embryo attached, clearly showing the importance of the blastocyst in the regulation of renin-angiotensin system (RAS).
National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, National Institutes of Health.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
A commonly observed outcome, as a result of erectile tissue damage and fibrosis in this setting, is the complete loss of natural erectile ability.
Males with sickle cell disease (SCD) are commonly affected.
Given the adverse health consequences of this condition coupled with its specific population extent, health policy considerations are warranted.
Due to loss of length, patients who had penile prosthesis implantation for Peyronie's disease (PD) show a statistically significant reduction in their levels of satisfaction when compared with the general implant population.
The Australian and New Zealand Burn Association (ANZBA) commenced the Bi-National Burns Registry (Bi-NBR) at that time.
As a result of the limitations identified with the registry, ANZBA collaborated with Monash University to develop the registry as a clinical quality registry [1].
Pathology changes the consistency of the tissues.
Applied Biomedical Research Program, Agency for Innovation by Science and Technology (IWT-TBM).
None.
National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health.
Training simulators have been used for decades with success; however, a standardized educational strategy for diagnostic EGD is still lacking.
Gastric electric stimulation (GES) at a high-frequency, low-energy setting is an option for treating refractory gastroparesis.
The currently available commercial stimulator, the Enterra neurostimulator (Medtronic Inc, Minneapolis, MN), however, requires surgical implantation and is powered by a nonrechargeable battery.
This is especially concerning in academic intensive care units where attending physicians must couple teaching duties with patient care.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology programme.
Previous resting-state functional connectivity MRI (rs-fcMRI) studies have sought to understand the neural correlates of ADHD by comparing connectivity measurements between those with and without the disorder, focusing primarily on cortical-striatal circuits mediated by the thalamus.
To integrate the multiple phenotypic features associated with ADHD and help resolve its heterogeneity, it is helpful to determine how specific circuits relate to unique cognitive domains of the ADHD syndrome.
Spatial working memory has been proposed as a key mechanism in the pathophysiology of ADHD.
The mechanisms behind the development of post-RP ED are increasingly recognized and include cavernosal fibrosis and cavernosal smooth muscle apoptosis, resulting from cavernous nerve degeneration due to neuropraxia.
Multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) are an attractive cell source for this application based on their regenerative potential and their clinical applicability.
Whether or not this relationship is present in young, healthy men has yet to be demonstrated.
Although the impact of sex reassignment surgery on the self-reported outcomes of transsexuals has been largely described, the data available regarding the impact of hormone therapy on the daily lives of these individuals are scarce.
Epidemic outbreaks of influenza occur every year and healthcare systems must amplify their response in accordance with available medical resources.
This situation generates cost increases.
During the recent influenza A pandemic, costs were likely to have been greater than in previous years.
WHO case management algorithm for paediatric pneumonia relies solely on symptoms of shortness of breath or cough and tachypnoea for treatment and has poor diagnostic specificity, tends to increase antibiotic resistance.
Alternatives, including oxygen saturation measurement, chest ultrasound and chest auscultation, exist but with potential disadvantages.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Cancer Institute.
Respiration involves the back and abdominal muscles.
These muscles are 1 of the elements responsible for posture control, which is integral to injury prevention and physical performance.
However, the effects of respiratory-muscle exercise on posture remain unclear.
72 patients, from seven GP practices, had repeated specialist referrals and a Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-15 score of 10 indicating a high probability of medically unexplained symptoms.
15 were ineligible and 25 declined to participate.
The Dega osteotomy is a versatile procedure that is widely used to treat neuromuscular hip dysplasia.
There is a paucity of the English language literature on its use in acetabular dysplasia seen in developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH).
One form of sepsis, or endotoxic shock, is a hyperactivated systemic response caused by excessive expression of proinflammatory mediators, which results from Gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide-stimulated Toll-like receptor-4 signaling.
This lipopolysaccharide signaling is known to consist of a MyD88-dependent nuclear factor-B-mediated pathway that results in production of proinflammatory mediators (tumor necrosis factor-, interleukin-6, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, inducible nitric oxide synthase, cyclooxygenase-2) and a MyD88-independent interferon regulatory factor-mediated pathway that regulates production of Type 1 interferon-inducible proteins (interferon -induced protein-10, monocyte chemotactic protein-1).
In prior studies, phenylmethimazole markedly decreased virally induced Toll-like receptor-3 expression and signaling and significantly suppressed murine colitis in an experimental model wherein lipopolysaccharide is known to play an important role.
Fatigue is an underestimated cause of underperformance among physicians.
Division of Viral Hepatitis, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Stanford University.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Total hip or knee replacement is highly successful when judged by prosthesis-related outcomes.
However, some people experience long-term pain.
New medication classes are needed to improve treatment effectiveness in the depressed phase of bipolar disorder (BD).
Extant evidence suggests that BD is characterised by neural changes such as dendritic remodelling and glial and neuronal cell loss.
These changes have been hypothesised to result from chronic inflammation.
The principal aims of the proposed research is to evaluate the antidepressant efficacy in bipolar depression of minocycline, a drug with neuroprotective and immune-modulating properties, and of aspirin, at doses expected to selectively inhibit cyclooxygenase 1 (COX-1).
Minocycline has been widely used as an antibiotic in doses up to 400 mg/day.
The study progress will be overseen by a Data, Safety and Monitoring Board, which will meet once every 6 months.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
8.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Systematic documentation of process outcomes related to intervention adoption and adaptation.
Methods for determining cost-effectiveness of different treatments are well established, unlike appraisal of non-drug interventions, including novel diagnostics and biomarkers.
HIV is the most important risk factor for progression of latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) to active tuberculosis (TB).
Detection and treatment of LTBI is necessary to reduce the increasing burden of TB in the UK, but a unified LTBI screening approach has not been adopted.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
9.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Inspiratory muscle weakness is a known consequence of mechanical ventilation and a potential contributor to difficulty in weaning from ventilatory support.
Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) reduces the weaning period and increases the likelihood of successful weaning in some patients.
Preterm infants' repeated exposure to painful procedures may contribute to negative consequences.
Thus, improving preterm infants' neurodevelopmental outcomes requires prioritising their pain management.
Catharijne Foundation.
Harding Center for Risk Literacy, Max Planck Institute for Human Development.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
Hypertension (HTN) is a leading risk factor for preventable cardiovascular disease, with over one in five adults affected worldwide.
Lifestyle modification is a key strategy for the prevention and treatment of HTN.
Stress has been associated with greater cardiovascular risk, and stress management is a recommended intervention for hypertensives.
Stress reduction through relaxation therapies has been shown to have an effect on human physiology, including lowering blood pressure (BP).
However, individualised behavioural interventions are resource intensive, and group stress management approaches have not been validated for reducing HTN.
This research project was approved by the Sunnybrook Research Ethics Board and the University Health Network Research Ethics Board (Toronto, Canada).
Planned analyses are in full compliance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
Data collection will be completed by early spring 2012.
Primary and secondary analysis will commence immediately after data monitoring is completed; dissemination plans include preparing publications for submission during the summer of 2012.
This study will identify each intervention's strengths and weaknesses.
The authors strongly believe those findings will be able to translated into the clinical practices and patients and their family benefits.
Review registration: PROSPERO CRD42011001349.
It is assumed that volunteers will strengthen community health care services more in the future than they do today.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
10.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Invasive mechanical ventilation, if prolonged, may lead to high morbidity and mortality.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
13.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
There is good evidence of vaccine effectiveness (VE) in young healthy individuals but less robust evidence for effectiveness in the populations targeted for influenza vaccination.
The aim of this study is to examine the effectiveness of the seasonal influenza vaccination in the Scottish population.
The West of Scotland Research Ethics Committee has classified this project as surveillance.
The study findings will be disseminated in peer-reviewed publications and presented at international conferences.
Retinal light exposure is suggested to play an important role in the pathogenesis and treatment of SAD.
The study is approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency.
Results will be published in a relevant scientific journal and be communicated to respondents and relevant institutions through cooperation with the Danish Association of the Blind.
AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb.
National Institute on Aging Roybal Center.
National Institute on Aging.
Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development (ZonMw).
Knowledge regarding characteristics and transmission of Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis and Mycoplasma genitalium and antibiotic resistance in N gonorrhoeae in Guinea-Bissau, West Africa, is entirely lacking.
Current endoscopic pancreatic function test (ePFT) methods use either secretin or cholecystokinin (CCK) to measure pancreatic function.
EUS-guided FNA (EUS-FNA) is considered optimal for differentially diagnosing pancreatic masses.
However, the sensitivity of EUS-FNA ranges from 65% to 95%, respectively, which requires improvement.
All participants will provide informed consent; the study protocol has been approved by the Institutional Review Board of Columbia University Medical Center.
The NOCHOP study will provide valuable information about the efficacy of those interventions vis--vis clinically relevant end points and will inform policy makers through a detailed characterisation of the programme and its effects.
Few convincing treatment options have been identified for the excessively crying infant.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
However, studies on this subject are few due to limited research on implementation of programmes and methodological difficulties in conducting experimental studies on human resource interventions.
The authors present the protocol of an evaluation of a district-level capacity-building intervention to identify the determinants of performance of health workers in managerial positions and to understand how changes (if any) are brought about.
Alternative models of delivering care must be acceptable to a variety of stakeholders; however, little is known about the values and preferences that people attach to aspects of how and where care is delivered.
Results will be published in peer-reviewed scientific journals and via conference presentations; a newsletter will also be provided to study participants.
A stakeholder roundtable will also be held to discuss the results.
Green tea catechins possess a wide range of pharmacological properties, including antiviral, anti-infective, and immunostimulatory properties.
They also have demonstrated inhibitory effects on a variety of enzymatic and metabolic pathways involved in cancer development.
Catechins have been shown to have antiproliferative properties in various cell lines and may have direct virucidal effect.
The United States Food and Drug Administration has approved a topical ointment formulation of sinecatechins, derived from green tea catechins and other tea components, for the treatment of external genital and perianal warts.
The exact mechanism of action of sinecatechins in eradication of human papillomavirus-induced external genital and perianal warts is unknown, but may be due to one or more of the mechanisms mentioned.
Vacuum erection devices (VEDs) are becoming first-line therapies for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and preservation (rehabilitation) of erectile function following treatment for prostate cancer.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are antidepressants that cause sexual dysfunction.
The SSRI fluoxetine (FLX) appears to particularly affect the ejaculatory response.
Ejaculation is regulated both at brain and spinal levels.
Postpartum sexual health education was once routinely administered to postpartum women, but few interventions were specifically described or clearly based on theory, and few sexual interventions affected women's sexual behaviors.
This study is registered in ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT00544752.
The management of fistula-in-ano is a balance between fistula cure and preservation of continence.
National Institutes of Health and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
Norwegian Research Council and Frontier Science.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
18.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, spends approximately 50% of its $325 million annual human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevention funds for HIV-testing services.
The nationwide statistical analysis of hematologic malignancies in Korea has not been reported yet.
We investigated the usefulness of PF4/heparin antibody tests in these patients.
Immune reconstitution (IR) after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) reduces transplantation-related complications such as infection and improves HSCT outcomes.
Bortezomib targets molecular dysregulation of nuclear factor-B activation and cell cycle control, which are characteristic features of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
We evaluated the safety and efficacy of bortezomib treatment with dose-dense cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) every 2 weeks (CHOP-14).
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) rarely relapses in extracranial sites, and no specialized guidelines for follow-up evaluation have been proposed.
The use of natural bioactive compounds in conventional chemotherapy is a new direction in cancer treatment that is gaining more research attention recently.
Bioactive polysaccharides and polysaccharide-protein complexes from some fungi (edible mushrooms) have been identified as sources of effective and non-toxic antineoplastic agents.
Selected oyster mushrooms (Pleurotus pulmonarius and P. ostreatus being local [Nigeria] and exotic strains, respectively) were cultured on a novel medium of yeast extract supplemented with an ethanolic extract of Annona senegalensis, and the antileukemic potential of their metabolites was studied.
Autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy (AAG) is a rare disorder of antibody-mediated impaired transmission across the autonomic ganglia resulting in severe autonomic failure.
Supplementation of breast milk is difficult once infants suckle the breast and is often discontinued at end of hospitalisation and after discharge.
Cost-effectiveness is an important criterion in the decision to cover interventions in health insurance packages.
Several studies have been conducted that measured societal preferences concerning healthcare rationing decisions.
These studies mainly focused on one attribute.
To adjust quality-adjusted life year maximisation in accordance with societal preferences, the relative importance of attributes should be studied.
A secondary objective is to compare the validity of the willingness to pay method with the validity of a relatively new preference elicitation method, best-worst scaling.
The protocol is reviewed and approved by the medical ethical committee of the University Medical Center Leiden.
Alcohol consumption is a primary cause of physical, psychological and social harm to both the user and others.
At both the professional and non-professional level, sports players and fans report consuming alcohol at greater levels than people not involved in sports.
Limited systematic reviews have been conducted assessing interventions targeting alcohol consumption behaviour and related harms in the sporting context.
The findings of this study will be disseminated widely through mechanisms including peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
Religion is important in most African communities, but faith-based HIV prevention programmes are infrequent and very rarely evaluated.
Resident; Inter-rater reliability; Venous thromboembolism; Agreement; Risk assessment score.
Although nephrotoxic agents or nephrotoxins are known to induce acute renal cell injury, their cytotoxic action is not fully elucidated.
To test this possibility, we investigated if a nephrotoxin would exert oxidative stress, leading to renal cell injury accompanied by certain biochemical alterations.
We also examined if specific antioxidant might help prevent such oxidative cell injury.
Glycerol; Glyoxalase I; Heat shock protein; N-acetylcysteine; Renal cell injury.
However, little is known about the effects of LCPs in practice.
It was speculated that fatty tissue originated adipocytokines may play role in pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
These adipocytokines may alter vascular homeostasis by effecting endothelial cells, arterial smooth muscle cells and macrophages.
Vaspin is a newly described member of adipocytokines family.
We aimed to investigate whether plasma vaspin level has any predictive value in coronary artery disease (CAD).
Coronary artery disease; Vaspin; Adipokine.
The aim of this study was investigate whether an action observation would have an effect on the action that requires task understanding in humans.
Accuracy; Mirror neuron system; Mu Rhythm; Reaction time; SRTT.
Identify variables associated with intrapartum epidural use.
Epidural use; Foreign birth; Labor; Racial disparities.
Morbid obesity remains a potential relative contraindication for cardiac transplantation.
Unfortunately, obtaining suitable weight loss via dietary or exercise regimens is limited by the cardiac limitations of the patients.
We report on a new procedure of combining ventricular assist device placement with adjustable gastric band (VAD-BAND) placement to facilitate sufficient weight loss for cardiac transplantation.
Gastric band; Ventricular assist device; Morbid obesity; Heart failure; Transplantation; Weight loss.
Elevated and extreme circulating levels of lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) are considered to be an atherosclerotic risk factor, although additional studies on the low levels of Lp(a) are necessary to provide confirmation.
Lp(a); Carotid artery; IMT; Atherosclerosis.
After bariatric gastric bypass surgery patients are at risk of developing micronutrient deficiencies.
When spontaneous ecchymosis is observed in the skin, in at-risk patients, scurvy must be considered.
Scurvy; Gastric bypass surgery; Multiorgan dysfunction.
It has been associated with a variety of inflammatory, infectious, traumatic, toxic and neoplasic diseases, when no specific cause is found the process is called idiopathic.
The infectious cases occur in patients under systemic immunosuppression, which have an evident contiguous source or those who have undergone neurosurgical procedures.
We believe this is the second documented case of pachymeningitis secondary to this microorganism.
As a multifactorial disease, it is essencial to determine the specific causative agent of HCP before making treatment decisions, and great care is needed with immunocompromised patients.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Hypertrophic pachymeningitis; Ophtalmoplegia, optical neuropathy; Osteomyelitis; Skull base.
While not an uncommon tumor, urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder is rare in bladders draining pancreatic allografts.
A case of urothelial carcinoma directly involving a pancreatic allograft with metastasis that occurred in a 49-year-old pancreas and kidney transplant recipient is described.
Her initial clinical presentation and findings of CT scan of the abdomen suggested pancreatitis with features worrisome for rejection.
A biopsy of her pancreatic allograft contained poorly differentiated carcinoma and cystoscopic biopsy disclosed an invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma arising in the background of extensive urothelial carcinoma in situ.
Exploratory laparotomy revealed that the tumor invaded the right ovary and fallopian tube, cecum, and allograft with extensive retroperitoneal involvement.
She ultimately succumbed to her disease approximately 1 year after diagnosis.
Bladder cancer; Nested variant of urothelial carcinoma; Pancreas and kidney transplantation.
Tuberculous splenic abscess in an immunocompetent patient is extremely rare.
Abdominopelvic computed tomography showed multiple low density lesions in the spleen with ascites.
Interferon-gamma release assay was positive and adenosine deaminase level of ascites was significantly high.
No primary focus of infection was detected.
The patient was diagnosed as having primary multiple tuberculous splenic abscesses with tuberculous peritonitis causing ascites.
Follow up computed tomography, after completion of six month course of anti-tubercular therapy, showed splenic abscess and ascites completely disappeared.
Spleen; Abscess; Tuberculosis; Immunocompetent; Adenosine deaminase; Interferon-gamma.
The John P. Murtha Neuroscience and Pain Institute, International Spinal Intervention Society, and Center for Rehabilitation Sciences Research.
Compared with on-pump, off-pump surgery may prevent acute kidney injury (AKI) in the short term and may better preserve kidney function 1 year following surgery.
In the year 2009, the authors were competitively awarded a grant from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research to answer these kidney questions in CORONARY.
Ethics approval was obtained for additional renal data collection in centres that agreed to study participation (&gt;90% of participating centres).
This collection began for patients enrolled after 1 January 2010.
Remaining 1-year renal outcome data will be collected throughout 2012.
Results will be reported in 2013.
Subjective workload in healthcare employees is suspected to be important for the performance and safety of healthcare delivery.
Biodegradable hydrogels can deliver therapeutic payloads with great potentials in EMR and endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) to yield improvements in efficacy and foster mucosal regeneration.
Helicobacter pylori infection and intestinal metaplasia (IM) are associated with gastric cancer.
An impaired gastric mucosal barrier could be involved in this carcinogenesis.
In-hospital events; cardiovascular events, hospital admissions and mortality during follow-up.
Available for research to any participating clinician upon request to executive committee (fastmi2010@yahoo.fr).
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered to represent a transitional stage between ageing and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
The patient profiles of each study are based on unique inclusion criteria.
It is unknown whether these benefits continue over time as these children reach adolescence.
Vilazodone is the latest approved antidepressant available in the United States.
Its dual mechanism of action combines the inhibition of serotonin transporters while simultaneously partially agonizing serotonin-1a (5-HT1A) receptors.
This combined activity results in serotonin facilitation across the brain's serotonergic pathways, which has been termed by the authors as that of a serotonin partial agonist and reuptake inhibitor, or SPARI.
Oral cholinesterase inhibitors at doses efficacious for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are often prematurely discontinued due to gastrointestinal side effects.
In controlled clinical trials, transdermal rivastigmine demonstrated less such effects at similar efficacy.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
National Cancer Institute.
The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the United Health Foundation, and the Commonwealth Fund.
National Institutes of Health.
According to new Norwegian laws, mental healthcare for adults are obligated to assess all patients who are parents and to act on their children's needs.
This article describes the study protocol of implementing the interventions Family Assessment and Child Talks for children of patients in the adult psychiatry of the University Hospital of Northern Norway.
The interventions to be implemented are a standardised Family Assessment Form and the intervention called Child Talks.
The family assessment form is an intervention to identify children of mentally ill parents and their needs.
The intervention Child Talks is a health-promoting and preventive intervention where the mental health workers talk with the family about the situation of the children and their needs.
Anecdotal reports suggest that high-risk drinking in pregnancy is common in some remote Australian communities.
Alcohol is teratogenic and may cause a range of lifelong conditions termed 'fetal alcohol spectrum disorders' (FASD).
In 2009, Aboriginal leaders in the remote Fitzroy Valley in North Western Australia identified FASD as a community priority and initiated the Lililwani Project in partnership with leading research organisations.
Results will be disseminated widely through peer-reviewed manuscripts, reports, conference presentations and the media.
Prevention, mitigation, preparedness and major incident response may be improved through collection and analysis of high-quality standardised data on medical management of major incidents.
Standardised data may elevate the level of scientific evidence within disaster medicine research.
The results will be submitted for publication in an open access, peer-reviewed scientific journal.
The PRISMA checklist will be applied.
No ethics approval is considered indicated, as this is a literature review only.
In these patients, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is suggested as an alternative.
The authors assessed the cost-effectiveness of TAVI in Belgium.
Alloantibodies can pose serious clinical problems such as delayed haemolytic reactions and logistic problems, for example, to obtain timely and properly matched transfusion blood for patients in which new alloantibodies are detected.
Approval at each local ethics regulatory committee will be obtained.
Data will be coded for privacy reasons.
Patients will be sent a letter and an information brochure explaining the purpose of the study.
A consent form in presence of the study coordinator will be signed before the blood taking commences.
In the absence of the incus, many surgeons believe that reconstruction from the tympanic membrane to the stapes head is more effective than reconstruction to the stapes footplate.
This has rarely been tested empirically.
Published better clinical results with reconstruction to the stapes head might simply reflect less underlying disease in ears with an intact stapes superstructure.
According to Spanish health regulations, primary care professionals have the responsibility to carry out health-promoting community activities (CAs).
However, in practice, their implementation is not as widespread as it should be.
The aims of this study were to identify factors within the team, the community and the professionals that influence the development of these activities and to describe the community interventions in progress.
This study has been approved by the Research Ethics Committee of the Jordi Gol y Gurina Foundation in Barcelona and area 11 in Madrid.
The questionnaire distributed to the professionals will be anonymous.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
RBCs frequently undergo post-collection processing to meet certain recipient's special needs.
The extent of haemolysis and sublethal injury following these interventions has not been fully characterised.
Obesity is a complex trait with both environmental and genetic contributors.
Genome-wide association studies have identified several variants that are robustly associated with obesity and body mass index (BMI), many of which are found within genes involved in appetite regulation.
Chronic illnesses are marked by fluctuations and variations over time.
Palliative care can serve as an intervention to manage chronic illness, not just at the end of life but also in the early phases of illness.
For purposes of privacy and confidentiality, the systematic review will be limited to studies with de-identified data.
The systematic review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
It will also be disseminated electronically and in print.
Brief reports of review findings will be disseminated directly to appropriate audiences via email and other modes of communication.
Updates of the review will be conducted to inform and guide healthcare practice and policy.
Lichen planus (LP) is a mucocutaneous disease that is relatively common among adult population.
LP can present as skin and oral lesions.
Lepra reactions are not always diagnosable under the microscope.
We analyzed skin histopathology in 64 cases of lepra reaction.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis is an endemic disease in developing countries caused by different species of leishmania parasite, and if left untreated, it will result in a deformed scar after a relatively long period.
Although various systemic and topical treatments have been proposed for leishmaniasis, pentavalent Antimony compounds remain the first-line treatment for it.
Pilomatrixoma (PMX) is a benign, quite uncommon, skin neoplasm, which is frequently misdiagnosed by clinicians.
Cissampelos sympodialis Eichl.
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory allergic disease characterized by airway hyperreactivity (AHR), eosinophil tissue infiltration and lung remodeling.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic effect of C. sympodialis and its isolated alkaloid warifteine on allergen triggered airway hyperreactivity (AHR) and lung remodeling in murine model of asthma.
The BeWEL study is aimed at assessing the impact of a personalised lifestyle programme on body weight in people at risk of developing colorectal adenomas.
Ethical approval has been obtained from the Tayside Committee on Medical Research Ethics.
Dissemination of results will focus on publications in peer-reviewed journals, presentations at national/international cancer meetings and NHS groups.
In addition, the work will be communicated to the public through forums such at The Scottish Cancer Prevention Network (http://www.cancerpreventionscotland.co.uk/).
This clinical trial is performed according to the Declaration of Helsinki and has been approved by the Regional Scientific Ethical Committee for Southern Denmark and the Danish Data Protection Agency.
This protocol covers the first part of a two-part project funded by the Health Libraries Group and the University Health and Medical Librarians Group.
It details the proposed methodology for a systematic map of the literature relating to UK bibliographic databases in the fields of health and social care.
The aim of this mapping exercise is to consider ways in which UK bibliographic databases are described, considered and discussed in the published and unpublished literature.
In doing so, we hope to gain a clearer sense of the ways in which UK bibliographic databases are used and viewed by the research community.
This topic is important because UK databases are generally underused by researchers in the UK context and some databases are at risk of closure.
A lack of access to UK databases means that researchers may miss relevant UK evidence when identifying an evidence base.
The purpose of this study was to report on the incidence and treatment outcomes of endogenous endophthalmitis among newborns in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of a single medical center.
Bimatoprost 0.01% was developed for improved tolerability over bimatoprost 0.03%, while maintaining efficacy in lowering intraocular pressure (IOP).
This multicenter, prospective, open-label, observational study was designed to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of bimatoprost 0.01% in routine clinical practice.
Within municipal dementia care in Sweden, pain assessment has become problematic for registered nurses, as they have entered a new role in their nursing profession, from being clinical practitioners to becoming consultant advisers to other health care staff.
Behavioral Intervention for Insomnia in Older Adults.
NCT01154023.
URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01154023?term=Behavioral+Intervention+for+Insomnia+in+Older+Adults&amp;rank=1.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Canadian Association of Gastroenterology; European Association for Gastroenterology and Endoscopy; Asian Pacific Society of Digestive Endoscopy; and Institute of Diabetes, Metabolism, and Nutrition of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.
the cattle genome.
This form of variation can potentially cause phenotypic variation.
Our objective was to determine whether dense SNP (single nucleotide polymorphisms) panels can capture the genetic variation due to a simple bi-allelic CNV, with the prospect of including the effect of such structural variations into genomic predictions.
This study had two purposes.
The category of impaired fasting glucose (IFG) denotes a state of nondiabetic hyperglycemia, considered a risk factor for the further development of diabetes mellitus (DM) and cardiovascular (CV) diseases.
Safety and efficacy of tamsulosin and vardenafil are well established: however, there is no report regarding combined therapy with these drugs for lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTSs) secondary to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
Worldwide, certain subsets of men bypass healthcare provider (HCP) interactions and obtain phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5i) from uncontrolled sources.
Driven by the shorter duration of admission nowadays and the fact that consultations are often performed in between the daily work schedules, the amount of cardiac disease as well as the impact on the daily workload can be underestimated.
Chronic pelvic pain (CPP) affects &gt;1 million UK women.
Annual healthcare costs are estimated at &gt;150 million.
Proven interventions for CPP are limited, and treatment is often unsatisfactory.
Gabapentin is increasingly prescribed due to reports of effectiveness in other chronic pain conditions, but there are insufficient data supporting value in CPP specifically.
The mechanism by which gabapentin exerts its analgesic action is unknown.
Ethical approval has been obtained from the Scotland A Research Ethics Committee (LREC 12/SS/0005).
Data will be presented at international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals.
The clinical significance of diagnosis of subclinical RHD by echocardiographic screening and early implementation of secondary prevention has not been clearly established.
The study has been submitted to the National Nepal Health Research Council and was registered with http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01550068).
The study findings will be reported in peer-reviewed publications.
CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIER:  NCT01550068.
Memantine is licensed for moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease (AD).
The underpinning meta-analysis was disputed by the manufacturer.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment Programme.
Ingestion of multiple antioxidants may result in synergistic increases in skin protection.
Physical exam findings, presenting, and posttherapy COHb concentrations as well as therapeutic interventions were evaluated.
COHb concentrations upon presentation were increased in all smoke inhalation exposed dogs.
The relationship between PPV and SPV has not been described in horses.
In sub-Saharan Africa, sepsis is an important cause of mortality.
Optimal sepsis management including fluid resuscitation, early antibiotic administration, and patient monitoring is limited by lack of supplies and skilled health workers.
Some general practitioners (GPs) treat acute low back pain (LBP) with acupuncture, despite lacking evidence of its effectiveness for this condition.
Analyses of prognostic factors for recovery and cost-effectiveness will also be carried out.
Participation is based on informed written consent.
The authors will apply for an ethical approval from the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research Ethics when the study protocol is published.
Results from this study, positive or negative, will be disseminated in scientific medical journals.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with a high risk of stroke and may often be asymptomatic.
AF is commonly undiagnosed until patients present with sequelae, such as heart failure and stroke.
Stroke secondary to AF is highly preventable with the use of appropriate thromboprophylaxis.
Therefore, early identification and appropriate evidence-based management of AF could lead to subsequent stroke prevention.
This study aims to determine the feasibility and impact of a community pharmacy-based screening programme focused on identifying undiagnosed AF in people aged 65 years and older.
Results will be disseminated via forums including, but not limited to, peer-reviewed publication and presentation at national and international conferences.
Patients benefit from early and intensive treatment in both acute ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attack.
Recent audits of acute stroke/transient ischaemic attack care suggest that although standards have improved, current services still fall short of optimal care.
The aim of this study is to establish a database of patients accessing stroke services.
Data will be collected and analysed to provide individualised feedback to healthcare professionals who can then use these findings to develop strategies for service improvement.
Ethical approval for this study has been obtained from the National Research Ethics Committee (reference; 09/H0716/71), and site-specific R&amp;D approval has been acquired from the relevant NHS trusts.
All findings will be presented at relevant healthcare/academic conferences and written up for publication in peer-reviewed journals.
Results will be fed back to patients and participating trusts through a series of reports and presentations.
These will be used to facilitate discussions about service redesign and implementation.
Translational research networks are a deliberate strategy to bridge the gulf between biomedical research and clinical practice through interdisciplinary collaboration, supportive funding and infrastructure.
The social network approach examines how the structure of the network and players who hold important positions within it constrain or enable function.
This information can be used to guide network management and optimise its operations.
The aim of this study was to describe the structure of a translational cancer research network (TCRN) in Australia over its first year, identify the key players within the network and explore these players' opportunities and constraints in maximising important network collaborations.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
National Institute of Health Research and Resuscitation Council (UK).
Standards for an aesthetic face are dynamic.
The current trend is towards a leaner looking face with preservation of the inverted triangle of youth.
Procedures that have been reported to be employed for correction of a chubby face include buccal fat pad excision, facial liposuction and injection lipolysis.
Inhalation of asbestos or silica is associated with chronic and progressive diseases, including fibrosis, cancer, and increased risk of systemic autoimmunity.
While oxidative stress in macrophages is an early consequence of these exposures, it may also serve as a signaling mechanism involved in downstream immune dysregulation.
Cystine is subsequently reduced to cysteine, the rate-limiting precursor for glutathione synthesis.
Nanoparticle-rich diesel exhaust (NR-DE) has potentially adverse effects on testicular steroidogenesis.
However, it is unclear whether NR-DE influences steroidogenic systems in the brain.
Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) related inflammation has an anorexigenic effect through affecting the release of appetite-modulating mediators, leptin and ghrelin.
Elevated serum calprotectin levels are found in a variety of inflammatory conditions.
Improving the safety of health care systems requires understanding incidents and their causes.
Labour and delivery nurses can contribute to understanding incidents and incident reporting because they actively identify and report incidents in practice.
Low back pain often becomes a chronic condition and causes physical, psychological, social, and occupational impairment.
Despite huge allocations of resources into the healthcare system and the labour market for treating and preventing low back pain, problems related to low back pain persist.
Counselling addressed experienced workplace barriers and physical activity.
Studies of the nursing work environment are increasingly common in developed countries, but few exist in developing countries.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
Philip P; Sagaspe P; Prague M; Tassi P; Capelli A; Bioulac B; Commenges D; Taillard J.
Acute versus chronic partial sleep deprivation in middle-aged people: differential effect on performance and sleepiness.
SLEEP 2012;35(7):997-1002.
SLEEP 2012;35(7):1003-1009.
This cross-sectional study aims to assess the acceptability of an electronic method of data collection in general practice patients.
This study has been approved by the human research committees in participating universities.
Findings will be disseminated via peer-reviewed publications, conference presentations as well as practice summaries provided to participating practices.
Patients who survive an intensive care unit admission frequently suffer physical and psychological morbidity for many months after discharge.
Current rehabilitation pathways are often fragmented and little is known about the optimum method of promoting recovery.
Consent will be obtained from patients and relatives according to patient capacity.
Data will be analysed according to a predefined analysis plan.
However, there is still evidence of individuals dying undignified deaths with little pain control, therefore inflicting unnecessary suffering.
A novel feature of the ICP is its focus on palliative care over the last 6 months of life, aiming to intervene early to prepare for and ensure a good death.
What is not known is if this pathway works, how it works and who it works for.
Ethical approval has been granted from the NHS local ethics committee (REC reference number: 11/NE/0318).
Research &amp; Development approval has been gained from four different trusts, and relevant voluntary organisations and the local council have been informed about the research.
This protocol illustrates the complexity inherent in evaluating a palliative care ICP.
Outcomes from each data collection phase will be disseminated separately if analysis warrants it; all data collection will be utilised in the realist evaluation.
The research provides a potential for the dissemination of the pathway to other localities through the transferable knowledge it will generate, from its focus on the contexts that are crucial for successful implementation, the mechanisms that facilitate implementation and the outcomes achieved.
Female sexual function is negatively influenced by pregnancy due to the physical and emotional changes.
Radiation therapy (RT) for prostate cancer is frequently associated with posttreatment erectile dysfunction (ED).
Given that recurrent sexual interest in prepubescent children is one of the strongest single predictors for pedosexual offense recidivism, valid and reliable diagnosis of pedophilia is of particular importance.
Nevertheless, current assessment methods still fail to fulfill psychometric quality criteria.
In our previous study, chronic vardenafil treatment improved erectile function soon after the end of the treatment in rats with acute arteriogenic erectile dysfunction (ED).
Endothelium-derived relaxing factors such as nitric oxide (NO), prostanoids, and endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) are thought to play an important role in vasodilation of penile arteries.
Rho kinases (ROKs) cause calcium-independent modulation of smooth muscle contraction.
A significant role for the RhoA/ROK pathway in mediating the contraction of the penile erectile tissue has been suggested.
Moreover, it has been postulated that ROK activity might represent a key factor in the pathophysiology of erectile dysfunction.
Up until today, little is known on the significance of ROK and related proteins in the control of blood flow in the corpus cavernosum.
Endothelial dysfunction-induced abnormalities of the nitric oxide (NO)/cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) signaling pathway in the corpus cavernosum are thought to be the main factors involved in the pathogenesis of diabetes-induced erectile dysfunction (ED).
Recent studies have shown that the poly(adenosine diphosphate ribose) polymerase (PARP) pathway plays a critical role in diabetic endothelial dysfunction.
Ferromagnetic implants or devices may create a potentially hazardous or painful situation during magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Returning to work can be problematic for cancer survivors due to suboptimal workplace support, a heavy workload, decreased physical functioning and fatigue.
Multidisciplinary interventions aimed at timely and enduring RtW are lacking.
The study results will be used for optimising the intervention content and may serve as a foundation for future implementation.
The Medical Ethics Committees of the Academic Medical Center and the participating medical centres approved the study protocol.
Delamination of the anterior lens capsule producing a double-ring sign during continuous curvilinear capsulorhexis is commonly associated with true exfoliation syndrome.
Paecilomyces lilacinus is a saprobic fungus that occasionally causes keratitis in infected patients.
Voriconazole, a triazole antifungal agent, is often administered to treat P. lilacinus keratitis, because it is resistant to many antifungal agents.
However, some patients may not require voriconazole.
The purpose of this work was to report on the performance of medial blepharosynechioplasty (MBSP), a newly devised technique for treating severe dry eye.
City of New York and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Healthy Eating Research program.
None.
Roche Pharma and Lundbeck.
Surgical intervention for corneal perforation is indicated when the anterior chamber does not reform within a short period of time.
Herein, we report the successful management of a small paracentral corneal perforation using autologous iris incarceration and tissue adhesive.
None of the authors have any competing interest.
This work is part of the project 'Identification and Characterization of Genes Involved in Infertility (ICG2I)' funded by the program GENOPAT 2009 from the French Research Agency (ANR).
This work was supported, in part, by the Program in Reproductive and Adult Endocrinology, NICHD, NIH, Bethesda, MD.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
Our results provide preliminary evidence for the applicability of our findings to other ethnic groups when pregnancy is complicated by obesity.
and Z.M.F.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was supported by Chinese National Natural Science Foundation (81070463), Program for Changjiang Scholars and Innovative Research Team in University (IRT0935), and Research Seed Fund from West China Second Hospital of Sichuan University (to H.B.).
There are no any competing interests.
This research was funded by a grant from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Assisted Human Reproduction Canada #PAH-103594, 2009/10.
No competing interests.
No funding was obtained for this study.
The authors have no conflict of interest.
No funding was obtained for this study and the authors have no competing interests.
The authors have no interests to disclose.
This study was supported by grants NSC97-2314-B002-079-MY3, NSC98-2314-B002-105-MY3 and NSC 100-2314-B002-027-MY3 from the National Science Council of Taiwan.
There is no competing interest declared in this study.
Morton's neuroma is a common cause of pain that radiates from between the third and fourth metatarsals and which, when symptomatic, creates sensations of burning or sharp pain and numbness on the forefoot.
Trial results will be published according to the CONSORT statement, modified for the N-of-1 pilot study design, regardless of the outcomes.
For those women whose perineal wound dehisces, the management will vary according to individual practitioner's preferences.
For most women, the wound will be managed expectantly (healing by secondary intention), whereas others may be offered resuturing.
However, there is limited scientific evidence and no clear guidelines to inform best practice.
This will potentially lead to significant improvements in perineal care and will help to reduce the short- and long-term morbidity experienced by women.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Quality assessment of included studies is an important component of systematic reviews.
At present, physicians have a limited ability to predict major cardiovascular complications after non-cardiac surgery and little is known about the anatomy of coronary arteries associated with perioperative myocardial infarction.
Coronary CTA results in a measurable radiation exposure that is similar to a nuclear perfusion scan (10-12 mSV).
Treating physicians will be blinded to the CTA results until 30 days after surgery in order to provide the most unbiased assessment of its prognostic capabilities.
The only exception will be the presence of a left main stenosis &gt;50%.
This approach is supported by best available current evidence that, excluding left main disease, prophylatic revascularisation prior to non-cardiac surgery does not improve outcomes.
An external safety and monitoring committee is overseeing the study and will review outcome data at regular intervals.
Accreditation programmes aim to improve the quality and safety of health services, and have been widely implemented.
However, there is conflicting evidence regarding the outcomes of existing programmes.
The Accreditation Collaborative for the Conduct of Research, Evaluation and Designated Investigations through Teamwork-Current Accreditation Processes (ACCREDIT-CAP) project is designed to address key gaps in the literature by evaluating the current processes of three accreditation programmes used across Australian acute, primary and aged care services.
Results will be reported to partner organisations, healthcare consumers and other stakeholders via peer-reviewed publications, conference and seminar presentations, and a publicly accessible website.
Academy of Architecture for Health, Facilities Guidelines Institute, and The Center for Health Design.
A growing body of research supports the physical and mental health benefits of yoga.
Complementary medicine has grown over time with more botanicals emerging and remaining integral parts of medicare.
Such botanicals include Cryptolepis sanguinolenta.
MTHFR deficiency is the most common cause of hyperhomocysteinemia, thereby provoking a possible association between PCOS and MTHFR C677T polymorphism.
Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis is characterized by multisystem inflammation, resulting from prolonged and intense activation of macrophages, histiocytes and CD8+ T-cells.
Due to its variable presentation and non-specific findings, timely diagnosis can be challenging.
This condition has been associated with malignancies, most commonly with lymphomas and leukemias of T-cell lineage.
This case report represents the less commonly associated B-cell lymphomas.
We also highlight the difficulties in managing hemophagocytosis with an evolving malignancy.
This case report will add to the increasing literature on the diagnosis, complications and management of this complex disorder.
Internal hernia within the falciform ligament is exceedingly rare.
A literature search revealed only 14 cases of internal herniation of the small bowel through a congenital defect of the falciform ligament, most of which were found intra-operatively.
Classic patient-physician consultations seem to be poorly adapted to young children.
New strategies that are better attuned to young people to improve support of adolescents' self-management of diabetes need to be tested and evaluated.
Current assumptions rely on intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) being uniform across the abdominal cavity.
The abdominal contents are, however, a heterogeneous mix of solid, liquid and gas, and pressure transmission may not be uniform.
The current study examines the upper and lower IAP following liver transplantation.
Although the World Society for Abdominal Compartment Syndrome in its guidelines recommends midaxillary line (MAL) as zero reference level in intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) measurements in aiming at standardizing the technique, evidence supporting this suggestion is scarce.
The aim of this study is to study if the zero reference position influences bladder pressure measurements as estimate for IAP.
We hypothesized that elevated intra-abdominal pressure [IAP] due to pneumoperitoneum leads to an increased lactate/pyruvate [L/P] ratio in the rectus abdominis muscle [RAM], indicating anaerobic metabolism.
The purpose of the present study was to quantify bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes due to different levels of intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH; 15 vs. 30 mmHg) lasting for 24 h in a porcine model.
Data on intra-abdominal hypertension [IAH] and secondary abdominal compartment syndrome [ACS] due to neurological insults are limited.
We evaluated the relationship between IAP and APP and outcomes of cirrhotic septic patients, and assessed the ability of these measures compared to other common resuscitative endpoints to differentiate survivors from nonsurvivors.
Abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS) is a syndrome associated with multi-system effects of elevated intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) in critically ill children.
It has a 90-100% mortality rate if not recognized and treated promptly.
Measuring IAP helps identify patients developing intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH) which allows for timely intervention before progression to ACS.
IAP helps identify ACS and guides its medical and surgical management.
Pediatric critical care nurses (PCCN) play a key role in managing critically ill patients and recognizing potential causes for clinical deterioration such as ACS therefore should be knowledgeable about this entity.
Abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS) is a life threatening condition that may affect any critically ill patient.
Little is known about the recognition and management of ACS in Germany.
Several decades ago, the beneficial effects of goal-directed therapy, which include decompressive laparotomy (DL) and open abdomen procedures in cases of intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH) in children, were proven in the context of closures of abdominal wall defects and large-for-size organ transplantations.
Different neonatologic and pediatric disease patterns are also known to be capable of increasing intra-abdominal pressure (IAP).
Therefore, the present study looks at the recognition and knowledge of IAH/ACS among German pediatric intensivists.
However, surveys usually rely on readings taken at a single visit, the option to implement the diagnosis on readings taken at multiple visits, being limited by costs.
As the study setting revealed only symptomatic patients or those attending regular follow-up, the true incidence might be somewhat higher.
As there is no specific diagnostic code for uterine perforation or treatment, it is unlikely that all cases of uterine perforation can be identified in a retrospective study.
OPD can impact on children's growth, nutrition and overall health.
Results are planned to be disseminated in six papers submitted to peer reviewed journals, and presentations at relevant international conferences.
Solely in Europoe, Salmonella Typhimurium causes more than 100,000 infections per year.
Currently, commercially available ELISA assays are based on a mixture of O-antigens (LPS) or total cell lysate of Salmonella and are hampered by cross-reaction.
Performing laparoscopic procedures requires special training and has been documented as a significant source of surgical errors.
"Warming up" before performing a task has been shown to enhance performance.
However, little is known about the part played by role models and mentors in the context of surgery.
The aim of this survey was to elucidate medical students' and surgical trainees' experiences of role models and to determine how mentoring works in practice.
We also set out to identify traits associated with successful role models and mentors.
Many family health innovations that have been shown to be both efficacious and cost-effective fail to scale up for widespread use particularly in low-income and middle-income countries (LMIC).
Although individual cases of successful scale-up, in which widespread take up occurs, have been described, we lack an integrated and practical model of scale-up that may be applicable to a wide range of public health innovations in LMIC.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate nepafenac ophthalmic suspension 0.1% (Nevanac(); Alcon Research Ltd) in the prevention of macular edema following cataract surgery in diabetic retinopathy patients.
Surgical scarring on the face and disrupted anatomy in the medial canthal area following external dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR) can be avoided by an endonasal approach.
Thoracic lavage was performed following ligation of a patent ductus arteriosus in case 1, prior to closure of a large traumatic full thickness wound in the chest wall in case 2, and during investigation of an idiopathic spontaneous pneumothorax in case 3.
In each case anesthesia and surgery were uneventful until thoracic lavage was performed, after which sudden generalized pulmonary atelectasis was observed.
The atelectasis was visualized and was associated with oxyhemoglobin desaturation, decreased end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure (ETCO(2)), and a marked increase in the peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) required to achieve visible lung inflation.
Occlusion of the endotracheal tube and cervical trachea was directly eliminated as the cause of atelectasis in cases 1 and 2, and indirectly eliminated in case 3.
Fieldworkers have had advanced Criminal Records Bureau clearance.
Findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications, national and international conferences, through participating schools and the study website (http://www.orielproject.co.uk).
Dissimilarities in management and outcomes exist between upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) and urothelial carcinoma of the bladder (UCB).
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a worldwide health threat associated with increased cardiovascular disease and mortality.
Effective self-care is important in the management of dysmenorrhea.
Premature ejaculation (PE) is a highly prevalent and complex syndrome that remains poorly defined and inadequately characterized.
Pharmacotherapy represents the current basis of lifelong PE treatment.
Questions have recently arisen in the popular press about the association between specific sexual behaviors, namely, fellatio and cunnilingus, with head and neck cancers.
These particular cancers, OSCCs, have been shown to be associated with the human papillomavirus (HPV).
Several researchers have suggested that this shift in the epidemiology of head and neck cancers might be attributable to changing sexual practices.
While this speculation has caught on in the popular press, there are several interesting contradictions in the existing evidence that suggest this conclusion might be premature and overreached.
Women's postpartum sexuality can be influenced by factors related to physical, personal, and relationship transitions after the newborn arrives.
Despite this, many experiential and social factors remain unexplored.
Vulvar lichen sclerosus (LS) is a chronic inflammatory and mutilating disease, which goes often undetected for years.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a devastating condition that places a heavy burden on public health resources.
Safety oversight will be under the direction of an independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB).
Approval of the protocol was obtained from the DSMB prior to enrolling the first study participant.
The findings of this investigation, as well as associated ancillary studies, will be disseminated in the form of oral and abstract presentations at major national and international medical specialty meetings.
The primary objective and other significant findings will also be presented in manuscript form.
All final, published manuscripts resulting from this protocol will be submitted to Pub Med Central in accordance with the National Institute of Health Public Access Policy.
Intraorbital abscess is a very severe infection with ophthalmologic and neurologic complications that are sometimes life-threatening.
Analysis of key therapeutic targets such as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in clinical tissue samples is typically done by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and is only subjectively quantitative through a narrow dynamic range.
The development of a standardized, highly-sensitive, linear, and quantitative assay for EGFR for use in patient tumor tissue carries high potential for identifying those patients most likely to benefit from EGFR-targeted therapies.
The impact of registered nurse (RN) staffing on patient care quality has been extensively studied.
Describing the safety climate in hospitals is an important first step in creating work environments where safety is a priority.
Yet, little is known about the patient safety climate on medical-surgical units.
The funding agency has no role in dissemination.
This work was, in part, sponsored by Merck Serono.
No funding or competing interests to declare.
None.
Funding was granted by Laboratoire d'Eylau, Unilabs.
No competing interests.
This study was supported by research grants from Fonds voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek Vlaanderen, Onderzoeksraad Vrije Universiteit Brussel and Wetenschappelijk Fonds Willy Gepts.
Unconditional grants from MSD Belgium, Merck International, IBSA Institut Biochimique and Ferring International Center are kindly acknowledged.
There were no commercial relationships (i.e.
consultancies, patent-licensing agreements) that might pose a conflict of interest in connection with the submitted manuscript.
The objective of this research was not directed toward any treatment effects.
Study funding by Merck Serono, The Swedish Research Council and The Family Planning Fund in Uppsala.
No conflicts of interest to declare.
No competing interests declared.
The authors are supported by NIH grant T32DK007703-16 and P30DK46200 and European Union DEER Grant 212844.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
This study is partly supported by grants from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was supported by grants from NIOSH (T42 OH008416) and NIEHS (R01 ES009718, P30 ES000002 and R01 ES017457).
The authors declare no competing interests.
At the time this work was conducted and the initial manuscript written, MEM was affiliated with the Environmental Health Department at the Harvard School of Public Health.
Currently, MEM is employed by Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company.
This work was supported by research grants from the Plan Nacional de Investigacin Cientfica, Desarrollo e Innovacin Tecnolgica (Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Fondo de Investigacin Sanitaria, PI080185, PI0110091) and Red RECAVA (RD06/0014/0004), by Consellera de Sanidad (AP-141/11) and Consellera de Educacin (PROMETEO/2011/027), Generalitat Valenciana, by Beca Fibrinolisis 2009 and Becario 2010, 2011 from Fundacin Espaola de Trombosis y Hemostasia and by the Fundacin Investigacin Hospital La Fe, Spain.
None of the authors have any conflicts of interest.
No external funding was obtained for this study.
There was no competing interest.
This study was funded by FIRB projects (RBAP11Z4Z9_002 to Giorgio Zauli and RBAP10447J_002 to Paola Secchiero).
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; National             Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke; The Netherlands Organisation             for Scientific Research; and the Netherlands Organisation for Health Research             and Development.
Celgene Corporation.
To avoid negative post-infection sequelae, establishing an early diagnosis and treatment is crucial.
There is concern about the negative impact of modern consumer culture on young people's mental health, but very few studies have investigated associations with substance use.
In those which have, positive associations have been attributed to attempts to satisfy the unmet needs of more materialistic individuals.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
36.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Frequent hospitalisations, along with other direct and indirect costs, place financial burden on healthcare systems.
We aim to test the hypothesis that telemedicine and distance learning applications is superior to the current standard of home care.
This study has been approved by National Bioethics Committee (2011-03-07; Registration No: BE-2-11).
One in seven pages are sent to the wrong physician and may result in unnecessary delays that potentially threaten patient safety.
The authors aimed to implement a new team-based paging process to reduce pages sent to the wrong physician.
A split Cooper pair represents an entangled two-electron pair state, which has possible application in on-chip quantum computation.
Likewise the spin-activity of interfaces in nanoscale tunnel junctions has been investigated theoretically and experimentally in recent years.
However, the possible implications of spin-active interfaces in Cooper pair splitters so far have not been investigated.
The unique surface sensitivity and the high resolution that can be achieved with helium ion microscopy make it a competitive technique for modern materials characterization.
As in other techniques that make use of a charged particle beam, channeling through the crystal structure of the bulk of the material can occur.
Helium ion microscopy is a new high-performance alternative to classical scanning electron microscopy.
It provides superior resolution and high surface sensitivity by using secondary electrons.
Focused electron beam induced deposition (FEBID) is a direct-writing technique with nanometer resolution, which has received strongly increasing attention within the last decade.
In FEBID a precursor previously adsorbed on a substrate surface is dissociated in the focus of an electron beam.
The present topical review addresses selected examples that highlight this development in the areas of charge-transport regimes in nanogranular metals close to an insulator-to-metal transition, the use of these materials for strain- and magnetic-field sensing, and the prospect of extending FEBID to multicomponent systems, such as binary alloys and intermetallic compounds with cooperative ground states.
In many situations, genome-wide association studies are performed in populations presenting stratification.
Mixed models including a kinship matrix accounting for genetic relatedness among individuals have been shown to correct for population and/or family structure.
Here we extend this methodology to generalized linear mixed models which properly model data under various distributions.
In addition we perform association with ancestral haplotypes inferred using a hidden Markov model.
The software GLASCOW can be freely downloaded from www.giga.ulg.ac.be/jcms/prod_381171/software.
francois.guillaume@jouy.inra.fr
Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
In the context of studying whole metabolic networks and their interaction with the environment, the following question arises: given a set of target metabolites T and a set of possible external source metabolites  , which are the minimal subsets of   that are able to produce all the metabolites in T. Such subsets are called the minimal precursor sets of T. The problem is then whether we can enumerate all of them efficiently.
Source code and datasets used in our benchmarks are freely available for download at http://sites.google.com/site/pitufosoftware/download.
vicente77@gmail.com, pvmilreu@gmail.com or marie-france.sagot@inria.fr.
Implemented in the Bioconductor package iBBiG  CONTACT:  aedin@jimmy.harvard.edu.
Jiang P; Franklin KM; Duncan MJ; O'Hara BF; Wisor JP.
Distinct phase relationships between suprachiasmatic molecular rhythms, cerebral cortex molecular rhythms, and behavioral rhythms in early runner (CAST/EiJ) and nocturnal (C57BL/6J) mice.
SLEEP 2012;35(10):1385-1394.
The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Drane Family Fund, the Richard and Florence Koplow Charitable Foundation, and the National Cancer Institute.
Kuratorium fr Dialyse und Nierentransplatation (KfH) Foundation of Preventive Medicine.
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
The correlation analysis of EEG provides information about the functional coupling between areas.
It is reasonable to expect that emotional activation will modify prefrontal coupling during the performance of executive tasks such as Tower of Hanoi or Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST).
Biopsychological and sociocultural factors have been reported to be associated with sexual function in pregnancy.
To date, very few studies have focused on the relationship between sexual function and depression during pregnancy.
Long-term effects and side effects of cross-sex hormone treatment in transsexual persons are not well known.
Herbal preparations have long been used as folk remedies for erectile dysfunction (ED).
Age-associated erectile dysfunction (ED) involves a decrease in nitric oxide (NO) availability and impaired relaxation.
PnTx2-6, a toxin from the Phoneutria nigriventer spider, has been demonstrated to improve erectile function via NO/cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) pathway.
This spider's venom is characterized by several symptoms, including erection.
PnTx2-6 has been implicated in this phenomenon.
Animal venoms have been postulated as potential drugs to treat ED.
Sexual life is often impaired in anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN), and few studies have evaluated the possible relationships between body image concerns, eating disorder psychopathology, and sexual functioning in these syndromes.
Health service accreditation programmes are a regulatory mechanism adopted to drive improvements inpatient safety and quality.
Research investigating the benefits or limitations, of consumer involvement in accreditation programmes is negligible.
To develop our knowledge in this area the ACCREDIT collaboration (Accreditation Collaborative for the Conduct of Research, Evaluation and Designated Investigations through Teamwork) has developed a research plan, known as the ACCREDIT-SCI (Standards of Consumer Involvement) study protocol.
Two complementary studies have been designed: one, to examine the effectiveness of a standard for consumer participation and two, to explore how patient experiences vary across a range of settings with differing accreditation results.
Findings will be disseminated through seminars, conference presentations, academic publications and research partner websites.
The findings will be formulated to facilitate uptake by policy and accreditation agency professionals, researchers and academics, and consumers, nationally and internationally.
While implications of myocardial fibrosis on left ventricular (LV) function at rest have been studied in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), the pathophysiological consequences on dynamic LV outflow tract (LVOT) gradient have so far not been investigated in detail.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Office of Orphan Products Development.
National Institutes of Health.
none.
Potential competing interests: none.
Funding for the study was provided by Fundao de Amparo  Pesquisa do Estado de So Paulo (Fapesp) (2007/59423-7) and by the Division of Urology, Human Reproduction Section at the So Paulo Federal University.
This study was supported by Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) MA1080/17-3 and in part DFG MA1080/21-1 (to AM), NIH grants HD24870 (S.R.O.
and R.L.S.
), the Eunice Kennedy Shriver NICHD/NIH through cooperative agreement HD18185 as part of the Specialized Cooperative Centers Program in Reproduction and Infertility Research (S.R.O.)
and 8P51OD011092-53 for the operation of the Oregon National Primate Research Center (G.A.D., J.D.H., S.R.O.
and R.L.S).
None of the authors have any competing interest.
This work is part of the project 'Identification and Characterization of Genes Involved in Infertility (ICG2I)' funded by the programme GENOPAT 2009 from the French Research Agency (ANR).
This research was supported by funds provided by Centro Andros S.r.l., Palermo, Italy.
The authors declare no financial or commercial conflicts of interest in this study.
None of the authors declared a conflict of interest.
There was no study funding.
This study was supported by Shanghai Leading Academic Discipline Project (Grant number S30205) and Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine Doctor Innovation Fund (Grant number 201131).
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
No conflict of interest exists.
This paper was supported by funding from Cancer Research-UK to C.E., A.A.P.
and R.R.
(C481/A8141).
The views expressed are those of the authors.
No competing interests declared.
This work was funded by KU Leuven and European Network of Endometriosis (ENE), supported by the European Commission (Public Health Executive Agency).
No competing interests are declared.
No funding source.
All the authors declare no conflict of interest.
National Institute for Health and Welfare and the Academy of Finland.
No competing interests.
None of the authors have any conflict of interest to declare.
No conflict of interests to declare.
The authors report no conflict of interest.
none.
Human respiratory syncytial virus (HRSV) is one of the major etiologic agents of respiratory tract infections among children worldwide.
Septic shock is a highly inflammatory and procoagulant state associated with significant mortality.
The pathogenesis of several common gastric motility diseases and functional GI disorders remains essentially unexplained.
Some existing glucose-lowering agents have adverse effects such as weight gain or hypoglycaemia.
Type 2 diabetes tends to be a progressive disease, and most patients require treatment with combinations of glucose-lowering agents.
The sodium glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) receptor inhibitors are a new class of glucose-lowering agents.
Falls are the primary cause of accidental death in older persons, producing increased morbidity, decreased independence, and billions in medical costs annually.
Massage therapy (MT) may produce adaptations that decrease risk of falling.
If MT can improve stability in older persons, it may provide a new intervention for this issue.
A 66-year-old female client with cervical degenerative disc disease at lateral left facet joint C6/C7 was experiencing symptoms of chronic neck pain accompanied by limited cervical range of motion, as well as radicular left shoulder and arm pain.
The objective of this case report was to describe the effect of therapeutic massage on the client's symptoms and impairments of cervical DDD.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
39.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Acromioclavicular injuries are quite common and approaches to early management of those that are described as a Type III are controversial.
Clinical management can include surgical or conservative techniques.
The effect of resveratrol on the management of endometriosis-related pain was investigated in 12 patients who failed to obtain pain relief during use of an oral contraceptive containing drospirenone + ethinylestradiol.
Risk assessment scales for pressure ulcer (PU) prevention have become an aspect of quality improvement in healthcare, but their effectiveness depends on the reliability and validity of the scale.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
40.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
We had previously implemented the Thoracic Oncology Program Database Project (TOPDP) database for our translational cancer research needs.
While useful for many research endeavours, it is unable to store images, hence our need to implement an imaging database which could communicate easily with the TOPDP database.
Diabetes represents a major public health and health system burden.
As part of the Alberta's Caring for Diabetes (ABCD) Project, two quality-improvement interventions are being piloted in four Primary Care Networks in Alberta.
Gaps between health research, policy and practice have been documented and the need to evaluate the impact of public health interventions in real-world settings to inform decision-making and clinical practice is paramount.
The RE-AIM framework will be used to structure our dissemination activities by dimension.
Finasteride has been associated with sexual side effects that may persist despite discontinuation of the medication.
Other medications have been associated with irreversible neurological effects, such as phenothiazines with tardive dyskinesias.
Neurogenic erectile dysfunction resulting from cavernous nerve (CN) injury is a major complication caused by radical prostatectomy.
The use of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) on the nerve-injured site has shown promising results for the nerve regeneration.
However, the effects of PRP injection in corpus cavernosum after bilateral CN injury have never been investigated.
Animal models of urinary incontinence and erectile dysfunction following radical prostatectomy (RP) are lacking.
Counterfeit medication is a growing problem.
This study assessed the requirement for prescription, cost, origin, and content of medications sold via the Internet and purporting to be the phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor Viagra (sildenafil citrate).
While the primary goal of ranking applicants for surgical residency training positions is to identify the candidates who will subsequently perform best as surgical residents, the effectiveness of the ranking process has not been adequately studied.
Trial registration on http://www.clinicaltrials.gov.
#NCT00935402.
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01006525; Trial Name: Safety and Efficacy of Chronic Hypnotic Use; http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01006525.
N/A.
Even in developed economies infectious diseases remain the most common cause of illness in early childhood.
There is a paucity of knowledge regarding the workings of CRHT in the literature.
This report focuses on the provision of professional services by the team.
The stability of protein drugs remains one of the key hurdles to their success in the market.
The aim of the present study was to design a novel nanoemulsion drug-delivery system (NEDDS) that would encapsulate a standard-model protein drug--bovine serum albumin (BSA)--to improve drug stability.
The aim of this study was to enhance the bioavailability of fenofibrate, a poorly water-soluble drug, using a melt-adsorption method with supercritical CO(2).
Therapies are available to treat such diseases, but all have drawbacks and are not specifically targeted to the site of disease.
Chitosan is widely used in the biomedical community, including for orthopedic applications.
The aim of the present study was to coat chitosan onto iron oxide nanoparticles and to determine its effect on the proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
National Cancer Institute.
People of South Asian, African-Caribbean and Irish ethnicity are known to have worse cardiovascular outcomes than those from the white British group.
While the reasons underpinning this are complex, the effect of hypertension is both significant and modifiable.
In recent years, there has been increasing interest in and uptake of 'out-of-office' methods for blood pressure (BP) monitoring.
However, guidance in this area has been largely based on research among the white population.
This study aims to answer the following questions: (1) How often and in what ways does blood pressure (BP) monitoring occur and how does this differ between white and the above minority ethnic populations.
(2) Are the thresholds for diagnosis of hypertension, and treatment targets in hypertension comparable for white British and minority ethnic populations using different measurement modalities: office blood pressure, ambulatory BP monitoring and home monitoring?
(3) What preferences for BP measurement do people from white and minority ethnic populations have?
Ethical approval has been gained from the Black Country Research Ethics Committee: Ref 09/H1202/114.
Implementing venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk assessment guidance on admission to hospital has proved difficult worldwide.
In 2010, VTE risk assessment in English hospitals was linked to financial sanctions.
Volatile anaesthetics may have direct cardioprotective properties due to effects similar to ischaemic preconditioning and postconditioning.
Information on autonomic neurapraxia in female urogenital surgery is scarce, and a model to study it is not available.
Laparoendoscopic single-site (LESS) radical prostatectomy (RP) has been performed through different approaches.
The previous European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines on urinary incontinence comprised a summary of sections of the 2009 International Consultation on Incontinence.
A decision was made in 2010 to rewrite these guidelines based on an independent systematic review carried out by the EAU guidelines panel, using a sustainable methodology.
Three oral BASs are approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia: colestipol, cholestyramine and colesevelam.
The BAS colestimide/colestilan is used in Japan.
Colesevelam was recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of T2DM.
Emergency calls to ambulance services are frequent for older people who have fallen, but ambulance crews often leave patients at the scene without ongoing care.
Evidence shows that when left at home with no further support older people often experience subsequent falls which result in injury and emergency-department attendances.
SAFER 2 is an evaluation of a new clinical protocol which allows paramedics to assess and refer older people who have fallen, and do not need hospital care, to community-based falls services.
In this protocol paper, we report methods and progress during trial implementation.
SAFER 2 is recruiting patients through three ambulance services.
The Research Ethics Committee for Wales gave ethical approval and each participating centre gave NHS Research and Development approval.
We shall disseminate study findings through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
Decisions about when to start an antiretroviral therapy (ART) are normally based on CD4 cell counts and viral load (VL).
However, these measurements require equipment beyond the capacity of most laboratories in low-income and middle-income settings.
Thus, there is an urgent need to identify and test simple markers to guide the optimal time for starting and for monitoring the effect of ART in developing countries.
It is recommended that non-operative treatment of knee osteoarthritis (KOA) should be individually tailored and include multiple treatment modalities.
Despite these recommendations, no one has yet investigated the efficacy of combining several non-surgical treatment modalities in a randomised controlled study.
This study was approved by the local Ethics Committee of The North Denmark Region (N-20110085) and the protocol conforms to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
Data collection will be completed by April 2014.
Publications will be ready for submission in the summer of 2014.
Alterations in the composition of gut microbiota -known as dysbiosis- have been proposed to contribute to the development of obesity, thereby supporting the potential interest of nutrients acting on the gut microbes to produce beneficial effect on host energetic metabolism.
Non-digestible fermentable carbohydrates present in cereals may be interesting nutrients able to influence the gut microbiota composition.
The level of physical activity is low among elderly Malay people.
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.
National Institute on Aging.
Reliable and valid tools must be used to assess spasticity in clinical practise and research settings.
There is a paucity of literature regarding the validity of the Modified Modified Ashworth Scale (MMAS) and the Modified Tardieu Scale (MTS).
No study, to date, has been performed to compare the validity of the MMAS and the MTS.
This neurophysiological study protocol will compare the validity of the MMAS and the MTS in the assessment of poststroke wrist flexor spasticity.
The study results will be disseminated in peer-reviewed publications and presented at international congresses.
Approximately 90% of these deaths occur in developing countries.
However, as dementia is unlikely to be diagnosed for decades, short-term outcome measures are required.
AD biomarker changes precede clinical symptoms by many years, but their sensitivity to mid-life change remains unknown.
Detected pathologies are communicated to the participant's general practitioner with their permission.
Risk status by genotype would not be revealed.
Large gaps exist in the implementation of guideline recommendations for cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk management.
Electronic decision support (EDS) systems are promising interventions to close these gaps but few have undergone clinical trial evaluation in Australia.
We have developed HealthTracker, a multifaceted EDS and quality improvement intervention to improve the management of CVD risk.
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) is the most performed bariatric operation.
Reactive hypoglycaemia is a frequent late complication occurring in about 72% of RYGB patients, which can present with various intensities up to the serious form of neuroglycopaenia.
However, it seems to occur also after sleeve gastrectomy (SG) although much more rarely.
The protocol was approved by the Catholic University Ethical Committee (A1534/CE/2012).
Clinicaltrials.gov Registration n. NCT01581801.
None of the authors have a conflict of interest.
Supported by NIH grant HD-048535 to F.G.
The authors have nothing to disclose.
No funding was used.
There are no competing interests to declare.
This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health (grants numbers: CA87969, CA49449, CA065725, CA132190, CA139586, HL088521, CA140790, CA133914, CA132175, ES01664 to M.D.
); and by the American Health Association Foundation.
We have no competing interests to declare.
This study was supported by Grand-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (22591840).
There were no conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was partially supported by a grant from the Ferring Pharmaceutical.
The authors of the study have no competing interests to report.
Medical Research Council (UK).
None.
The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Nil.
No competing interests exist.
MSD Australia have provided us with a small amount of funding to cover our costs (including a travel grant for Dr Thalluri to present this work at a conference).
This work was supported by National Science Foundation of China (No.
81170619).
There are no financial or commercial conflicts in this study.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
The study was not supported by an external grant.
This study did not receive any specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sector.
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
This work was supported by grants-in-aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education, Sports, Culture, Science and Technology of Japan.
There is no conflict of interest related to this study.
There was no funding for this study and no conflict of interest.
This study was supported by grants PI080944 and PI110357 from Instituto de Investigacin Carlos III, Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness.
CIBERDEM is also an initiative of Instituto de Investigacin Carlos III.
The Authors have no competing interests to declare.
The research was funded by grants from the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council and Wellcome Trust.
None of the authors has competing interests for the study.
This work was supported by grants ES009718 and ES000002 from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences and grant OH008578 from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.
None of the authors has actual or potential competing financial interests.
Merck Serono supported the study but had no influence on the design of the study and was not involved in the analysis of the results or preparation of the manuscript.
This study has received support from the Danish Health Insurance Fund (J.nr.
11/097-97), the Else and Mogens Wedell-Wedellsborgs Fund, the manager E. Danielsens and Wife's Fund, the merchant L.F. Foghts Fund, the Jacob Madsen and Wife Olga Madsen's Fund, and the Engineer K.A.
Rohde and Wife's Fund.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was supported by grants from Ministry of University and Scientific Research (Prin project to E.B.
and FIRB project to S.M.)
and Regione Toscana (to G.F.).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
The duration of the study was short and the long-term effects of male hormonal contraceptive treatments on the integrity of the blood-testis barrier remain to be determined.
The study was supported by grants from the Contraceptive Research and Development Program and the Mellon Foundation (MFG-02-64, MFG-03-67), Endocrine, Metabolism and Nutrition Training Grant (T32 DK007571), the Clinical and Translational Science Institute at Los Angeles Biomedical and Harbor-UCLA Medical Center (UL1RR033176 and UL1TR000124) and the Los Angeles Biomedical Research Institute Summer High School Student Program.
None.
Supported by a scholarship from The Lundbeck Foundation (R93-A8476).
No conflict of interest declared.
No external funding was sought to support this work.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
Infective endocarditis (IE) is among the most serious infectious diseases in the western world.
Treatment requires lengthy hospitalisation, high-dosage antibiotic therapy and possible valve replacement surgery.
Despite advances in treatment, the 1-year mortality remains at 20-40%.
No studies investigating the effects of rehabilitation have been published.
The study complies with the Declaration of Helsinki and was approved by the regional research ethics committee (no H-1-2011-129) and the Danish Data Protection Agency (no 2007-58-0015).
Study findings will be disseminated widely through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
Good end-of-life care is often neglected, and detailed UK-based research on symptom burden and needs is lacking.
Our project examines these issues from multiple perspectives using a rigorous and innovative design, collecting data which will inform the development of pragmatic interventions to improve care.
12/EE/0003; 12/LO/0346), and by university ethics committee for work with healthcare professionals (REC ref.
3578/001).
We shall present our findings at conferences, and in peer-reviewed journals, prepare detailed reports for organisations involved with end-of-life care and dementia, publicising results on the Marie Curie website.
A summary of the research will be provided to participants if requested.
The risk of deep postoperative infection in these procedures is high and the outcomes can be devastating.
The most effective prophylactic antibiotic regimen remains unknown, and current clinical practice is highly varied.
This study has ethics approval from the McMaster University/Hamilton Health Sciences Research Ethics Board (REB# 12-009).
Successful completion will significantly impact on clinical practice and enhance patients' lives.
More broadly, this trial will develop a network of collaboration from which further high-quality trials in Orthopaedic Oncology will follow.
It is used for the treatment of infective hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, liver enlargement and other ailments of liver and gall bladder in India.
The aim of this study was to evaluate anti-hepatitis C virus activity present in the Eclipta alba extract, perform bioassay based fractionation and identify anti-HCV phytochemicals from the active fractions.
Our purpose is to describe the appropriateness of colonoscopy requests issued both from primary care centres and from hospitals, according to the EPAGE II guidelines (European Panel on the Appropriateness of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy).
Colonoscopy is a costly procedure and not free from complications.
In order to increase cost effectiveness, reduce waiting lists and optimise resources, it is necessary to use tools such as the EPAGE II guidelines, which establish criteria to assess the appropriateness of colonoscopies.
The purpose of this study is to describe the current situation and to discuss whether current clinical practice is appropriate.
In consideration of the ethical principles and methods of the research study, approval was granted for the project.
With its increase in participation rate and complex stunts and gymnastic-like maneuvers, cheerleading injuries are on the rise.
Registered at clinicaltrials.gov.
Identifier: NCT00051363.
Kushida CA; Nichols DA; Holmes TH; Quan SF; Walsh JK; Gottlieb DJ; Simon RD; Guilleminault C; White DP; Goodwin JL; Schweitzer PK; Leary EB; Hyde PR; Hirshkowitz M; Green S; McEvoy LK; Chan C; Gevins A; Kay GG; Bloch DA; Crabtree T; Demen WC.
Effects of continuous positive airway pressure on neurocognitive function in obstructive sleep apnea patients: the Apnea Positive Pressure Long-term Efficacy Study (APPLES).
SLEEP 2012;35(12):1593-1602.
Nguyen CD; Dakin C; Yuill M; Crozier S; Wilson S. The effect of sigh on cardiorespiratory synchronization in healthy sleeping infants.
SLEEP 2012;35(12):1643-1650.
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
Painful ejaculation (PE) is an uncommon condition and it is usually associated with prostatitis, chronic pelvic pain syndrome, benign prostatic hyperplasia, ejaculatory duct obstruction, radical prostatectomy, and prostate radiation.
Topiramate (TPM) is a new antiepileptic drug with recognized efficacy in neuropathic pain.
Diabetes is a risk factor for erectile dysfunction (ED).
The proposed mechanisms responsible for diabetic ED are associated with an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, overactivity of RhoA/ROCK signaling pathway and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase, as seen in experimental models of diabetic rats.
As yet, a summary of the research evidence concerning the efficacy of psychological treatment in female sexual dysfunction is lacking.
Previous reviews were often nonsystematic or explored one specific sexual dysfunction.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
48.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Reliable methods to differentiate between benign and malignant tumours are required to avoid delays in treating ovarian cancer and to prevent unnecessary interventions for benign lesions.
The protocol utilises the Risk of Malignancy Index to assess the risk of adnexal lesion being malignant.
Research ethical approval was granted by the North London Research Ethical Committee 2 (10/H0724/48).
Trial results will be published according to the CONSORT statement.
Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) results in reduction in bowel doses and has potential to reduce late morbidity, however, needs to be confirmed prospectively in a randomised trial.
The present randomised trial tests reduction if any in late small bowel toxicity with the use of IMRT in postoperative setting.
The trial is approved by institutional ethics review board and will be routinely monitored as per standard guidelines.
The study results will be disseminated via peer reviewed scientific journals, conference presentations and submission to regulatory authorities.
Potentially preventable hospitalisation (PPH) has been adopted widely by international health systems as an indicator of the accessibility and overall effectiveness of primary care.
Participants have consented to use of their questionnaire data and to data linkage.
Ethical approval has been obtained for the study.
Dissemination mechanisms include engagement of policy stakeholders through a reference group and policy forum, and production of summary reports for policy audiences in parallel with the scientific papers from the study.
Low serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3) are associated with an increased risk of respiratory tract infections (RTIs).
Clinical trials with vitamin D(3) against various infections have been carried out but data are so far not conclusive.
High-risk prescribing in primary care is common and causes considerable harm.
Feedback interventions to improve care are attractive because they are relatively cheap to widely implement.
There is good evidence that feedback has small to moderate effects, but the most recent Cochrane review called for more high-quality, large trials that explicitly test different forms of feedback.
The study was reviewed and approved by the NHS Tayside Committee on Medical Research Ethics B (11/ES/0001).
The study will be disseminated via a final report to the funder with a publicly available research summary, and peer reviewed publications.
Despite the knowledge that contaminated hands play an important role in the transmission of healthcare-associated pathogens, and that hand hygiene (HH) reduces the transmission of these organisms, healthcare worker's adherence with HH is poor.
While all cells are functionally deficient, resulting in high susceptibility to infections, only some of these cells are causing autoimmune symptoms.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
16, No.
49.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Abbott Laboratories.
With the current globalization of the world's economy and demands for enhanced performance, stress is present universally.
Life's stressful events and daily stresses cause both deleterious and cumulative effects on the human body.
The practice of meditation might offer a way to relieve that stress.
The authors reported that the extraction was inspected for evidence of inferior alveolar nerve (IAN) exposure under direct vision using a headlight.
Despite the importance of a correct diagnosis, classification of diabetes is based on aetiology and relies on clinical judgement.
There are no clinical guidelines on how to determine whether a patient has Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes.
As this is a systematic review, there will be no ethical issues.
We will disseminate results by writing up the final systematic review and synthesis for publication in a peer-reviewed journal and will present at national and international diabetes-related meetings.
The pleiotropic effects of 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), which are independent from their cholesterol-lowering action, have been widely recognized in various biological systems.
Statins can affect endothelial homeostasis, which is partly modulated by the production of nitric oxide (NO).
Therefore, it is important to understand the statin/NO-mediated S-nitrosylation in endothelial cells.
It is known that the increased level of IDL and oxidized LDL are associated with risk of cardiovascular disease, and the lipoprotein abnormalities accelerate atherosclerosis.
Therefore, the estimation of lipoprotein profiles is important for prevention of cardiovascular disease in HD-Ps.
We previously established an anion-exchange chromatographic method for measurement of cholesterol level in subclasses of HDL and LDL, IDL, VLDL, and chylomicron.
An electronegative-LDL-fraction contained minimally oxidized-LDL.
To determine the mechanism by which this occurs, we expanded primary culture of hepatoblasts enriched for progenitor markers CD133 and CD49f from embryonic day (E) 12.5 fetal liver and an established tumor initiating stem cell line from Mat1a(-/-) livers in media conditioned with recombinant (r) FGF10 or rFGF7.
FGFR activation-induced cell proliferation and survival were also inhibited by the compound ICG-001, a small molecule inhibitor of -catenin-CREB Binding Protein (CBP) in hepatoblasts, further indicating a CBP-dependent regulatory mechanism of -catenin activity.
Cytokines regulated by the inflammasome pathway have been extensively implicated in various age-related immune pathologies.
We set out to elucidate the contribution of the nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathway to the previously described deficiencies in IL-1 production by macrophages from aged mice.
We examined the production of pro-IL-1 and its conversion into IL-1 as two separate steps and compared these cytokine responses in bone marrow derived macrophages from young (6-8 weeks) and aged (18-24 months) C57BL/6 mice.
Strokes are a common cause of adult disability and mortality worldwide.
Transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) are associated with a high risk of subsequent stroke, and rapid intervention has the potential to reduce stroke burden.
This study will assess a novel electronic decision support (EDS) tool to allow general practitioners (GPs) to implement evidence-based care rapidly without full reliance on specialists.
Activation of the c-Met pathway is involved in cancer progression and the prognosis.
Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and deleted in breast cancer 1 (DBC1) are known as tumor suppressor or promoter genes.
This may be due to their diverse functions and interaction with other proteins.
Gastric adenocarcinoma is one of the most common malignancies, but little is known about its carcinogenesis.
Therefore, we investigated the association of immunohistochemical expression of SIRT1, DBC1, p53, and -catenin and their variable clinicopathological characteristics.
Tumor hypoxia is associated with malignant progression and treatment resistance.
Hypoxia-related factors, such as carbonic anhydrase IX (CA IX), glucose transporter-1 (GLUT-1), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) permit tumor cell adaptation to hypoxia.
We attempted to elucidate the correlation of these markers with variable clinicopathological factors and overall prognosis.
To define the exact boundary of the intrathyroid and extrathyroid aspects of a gland when determining the extent of cancer invasion, we plan to clarify the definition of sizable vascular structures, which is one of the helpful histologic clues in determining a minimal extrathyroid extension.
We hypothesized that arterial wall thicknesses in extrathyroid soft tissue would be significantly different from the arteries in the thyroid parenchyma.
The p16(INK4a) gene methylation has been reported to be a major tumorigenic mechanism.
We discuss methods for making TMA kits and recipient blocks for manual construction of high-density TMAs at low cost.
Pleomorphic carcinoma (PC) is a rare pulmonary malignancy.
Because of its rarity and histological heterogeneity, cytopathologists might suspect PC only rarely on the basis of its cytological specimen.
In addition, cytological findings from fine needle aspiration (FNA) specimens have rarely been described.
Hence, we investigated the cytological features of FNA in the cases of PC.
Nutritional iron deficiency is the most common cause of anemia in India.
The nearest correlation of iron deficiency anemia (IDA) can be made with Pandu Roga in Ayurveda.
Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) is extensively used in the diagnosis of various clinically palpable lesions of breast and salivary glands.
Much interest has been gained in mucosubstances produced in tumors arising from these organs.
Actinomyces species are part of mucosal surfaces of oral cavity, gastrointestinal and genital tracts.
When these mucosal surfaces disrupt, Actinomyces become pathogen and cause infection.
However, the role of eosinophil leucocytes in host defense against bacteria is conflicting.
Micronucleus (MN) represents small, additional nuclei formed by the exclusion of chromosome fragments or whole chromosomes lagging at mitosis.
MN rates, therefore, indirectly reflect chromosome breakage or impairment of the mitotic apparatus.
Their frequency appears to increase in carcinogen-exposed tissues long before any clinical symptoms are evident.
Since the first introduction of Papanicolaou (Pap) stain in 1942 there have been many modifications.
Of these, the Ultra-Fast Pap stain has become popular.
This technique was further modified in India as many of the reagents were not available in our country.
Rhinosporidiosis is a chronic infective disorder caused by Rhinosporidium seeberi.
It usually presents as a soft polypoidal pedunculated or sessile mass.
This measure characterises habit by automatic activation, behavioural frequency, and relevance to self-identity.
Previous empirical research suggests that the SRHI may be abbreviated with no losses in reliability or predictive utility.
Drawing on recent theorising suggesting that automaticity is the 'active ingredient' of habit-behaviour relationships, we tested whether an automaticity-specific SRHI subscale could capture habit-based behaviour patterns in self-report data.
Culicoides imicola KIEFFER, 1913 (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) is the principal vector of Bluetongue disease in the Mediterranean basin, Africa and Asia.
Previous studies have identified a range of eco-climatic variables associated with the distribution of C. imicola, and these relationships have been used to predict the large-scale distribution of the vector.
However, these studies are not temporally-explicit and can not be used to predict the seasonality in C. imicola abundances.
Between 2001 and 2006, longitudinal entomological surveillance was carried out throughout Italy, and provided a comprehensive spatio-temporal dataset of C. imicola catches in Onderstepoort-type black-light traps, in particular in Sardinia where the species is considered endemic.
Affinity-Purification Mass-Spectrometry (AP-MS) provides a powerful means of identifying protein complexes and interactions.
First, the reproducibility of AP-MS experimental replicates can be low, due both to technical variability and the dynamic nature of protein interactions in the cell.
Several experimental approaches can be used to mitigate these drawbacks, including the use of replicated and control experiments and relative quantification to sensitively distinguish true interacting proteins from false ones.
Roche 454 sequencing is the leading sequencing technology for producing long read high throughput sequence data.
Unlike most methods where sequencing errors translate to base uncertainties, 454 sequencing inaccuracies create nucleotide gaps.
These gaps are particularly troublesome for translated search tools such as BLASTx where they introduce frame-shifts and result in regions of decreased identity and/or terminated alignments, which affect further analysis.
With an abundant amount of microarray gene expression data sets available through public repositories, new possibilities lie in combining multiple existing data sets.
In this new context, analysis itself is no longer the problem, but retrieving and consistently integrating all this data before delivering it to the wide variety of existing analysis tools becomes the new bottleneck.
Spinal fusion and decompression surgery of the lumbar spine are common procedures for problems such as disc herniations.
Various studies for postoperative interventions have been conducted; however, no massage therapy studies have been completed.
To study the effects of massage therapy (MT) on Lyme disease (LD) symptoms and affect.
Transcatheter balloon valvuloplasty has been the accepted first line treatment for congenital pulmonic stenosis (PS) in children.
Transcatheter closure of perimembranous ventricular septal defect (VSD) with Amplatzer VSD occluder is an alternative to surgical repair.
Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis is an extremely rare disorder in which injuries can often be missed by patient, parents and even by orthopedic surgeon.
Pain and tenderness, on which a trauma team so much depends to make a clinical diagnosis and to decide whether to go for radiological evaluation can be misleading in this rare syndrome.
So complete clinical examination still forms the corner stone to avoid misdiagnosis and pick up the rare disorders.
Congenital midline cervical cleft (CMCC) is a rare developmental anomaly of the anterior neck, mostly found in Caucasian females.
Most authors consider it within the spectrum of branchial arch developmental abnormalities.
We devised a simple intervention to improve the readiness of interns to perform handoffs.
Increasing workforce diversity plays a major role in the reduction of health disparities, and a well-trained professional workforce is essential for the prevention, control, and ultimate elimination of this disease.
The Integrative Medicine in Residency (IMR) program, a 200-hour Internet-based, collaborative educational initiative was implemented in 8 family medicine residency programs and has shown a potential to serve as a national model for incorporating training in integrative/complementary/alternative medicine in graduate medical education.
Case-based presentations are widely used in medical education and are a preferred education modality to teach about the care of geriatric patients across a range of medical specialties.
Poor communication at hospital discharge can increase the risk of adverse events.
The hospital discharge summary is the most common tool for detailing events related to hospitalization in preparation for postdischarge follow-up, yet deficiencies in discharge summaries have been widely reported.
Resident physicians are expected to dictate discharge summaries but receive little formal training in this arena.
The direct fundoscopic examination is an important clinical skill, yet the examination is difficult to teach and competency is difficult to assess.
Currently there is no defined proficiency assessment for this physical examination, and the objective of this study was to assess the feasibility of a simulation model for evaluating the fundoscopic skills of residents.
In anticipation of the 2011 ACGME duty hour requirements, we redesigned our internal medicine resident ward experience.
Our previous ward structure included a maximum 30-hour duty period for postgraduate year-1 (PGY-1) residents.
In the redesigned ward structure, PGY-1 residents had a maximum 18-hour duty period.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) requires pediatric residency programs to teach professionalism but does not provide concrete guidance for fulfilling these requirements.
Individual programs, therefore, adopt their own methods for teaching and evaluating professionalism, and published research demonstrating how to satisfy the ACGME professionalism requirement is lacking.
Quality improvement (QI) activities are an important part of residency training.
The impact of the Institutional Review Board (IRB) process on such studies is not well described.
Efforts are underway to enhance learner input into the accreditation of educational programs, including residencies and fellowships.
They usually present with variable deformities yet share common characteristics.
Exorbitism is a protrusion of the eyeball due to a decrease in the capacity of the orbital container, and it may lead to drastic consequences if left untreated.
The aim of the present study is to evaluate the C-reactive protein (CRP) levels pre-operatively and post-operatively following a surgical intervention of mandibular fracture with osteosynthesis by rigid fixation using AO/ASIF principles and to try and correlate the prognosis of the convalescent period.
Labial and nasal deformities have always been a fundamental problem in the treatment of cleft lip, alveolus and palate patients.
The primary surgical treatment of nasolabial area is of paramount importance in order to obtain both an esthetical correction of the deformity and a progressive and a balanced development of mid-face.
Soft tissue augmentation by hyaluronic acid filler injections has become the most commonly done cosmetic procedure in the last 10years.
The present study was done to evaluate the patient satisfaction after these injections.
Ear reconstruction requires carefully planned procedures.
One factor affecting spinal cord injury (SCI)-related pain may be nicotine.
Neurobiological correlates also implicate the potential effect of nicotine on SCI-related pain.
Coping and participation are important adjustment outcomes of youth with spinal cord injury (SCI).
Research addressing how these outcomes are related is limited.
Physical activity recommendations require accurate estimations of exercise intensity.
Positive psychological frameworks have begun to explore how some individuals do not report psychological distress, while appraisals have been posited as possible mediators of psychological outcome.
However, we have noted an almost 15% rupture/attenuation rate.
During pandemic situations, where resources may be scarce, uncertainties may arise in veterans with SCI/D.
Paralysis of the respiratory muscles predisposes the patient toward respiratory failure.
Respiratory complications after cervical SCI include hypoventilation, hypercapnea, reduction in surfactant production, mucus plugging, atelectasis, and pneumonia.
Ultimately, the patient must use increased work to breathe, which results in respiratory fatigue and may eventually require intubation for mechanical ventilation.
Dysphagia is a relatively common secondary complication that occurs after acute cervical spinal cord injury (SCI).
The detrimental consequences of dysphagia in SCI include transient hypoxemia, chemical pneumonitis, atelectasis, bronchospasm, and pneumonia.
The expedient diagnosis of dysphagia is imperative to reduce the risk of the development of life-threatening complications.
Fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (FNAIT) is the commonest cause of severe neonatal thrombocytopenia.
FNAIT is usually suspected in neonates with bleeding or severe, unexplained, and/or isolated postnatal thrombocytopenia.
Close collaboration is required between specialists in fetal medicine, obstetrics, hematology/transfusion medicine, and pediatrics.
The mother and her partner should be provided with detailed information about FNAIT and its potential clinical consequences, and the benefits and risks of different approaches to ante-natal management.
There has been huge progress in the ante-natal management of FNAIT over the last 20 years.
However, the ideal effective treatment without significant side effects to the mother or fetus has yet to be determined.
Previous reports associated ADIPOQ 276G&gt;T polymorphism with plasma adiponectin levels and diabetes.
The coexistence of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) with differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) was reported with a heterogeneous incidence.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are clonal disorders of hematopoietic stem cell and are characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis with normo- or hyper cellular bone marrow and cytopenia(s).The natural evolution of the disease consists of bone marrow failure (leading to infectious and hemorrhagic episodes or anemia related complications) and transformation to acute myeloid leukemia.
In this study we evaluate the involvement of Vitamin D Receptor (VDR) FokI (rs10735810) Exon 2 (C/T) and BsmI (rs1544410) Intron 8 (A/G) gene variations in genetic susceptibility to polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in Iranian Azeri Turkish women.
The development of hysteroscopy has provided a minimally invasive approach to common gynecologic problems, such as abnormal uterine bleeding.
Although the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends hysterosapingography (HSG) alone for management of infertile women many specialists use hysteroscopy as a first-line routine exam for infertility patients regardless of guidelines.
It is associated to a variable extent with: cognitive disorders, epilepsy, sensory deficits, behaviour disorders.
Platelet count and the mean platelet volume (MPV), a simple and reliable indicator of platelet size which correlates with platelet activation, might associate with troponin in acute chest pain.
Today, early diagnosis of upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract malignancies and their surgical resection is becoming more feasible.
One of the important side effects in upper GI tract malignancies is malnutrition which has direct relationship with postoperative complications.
Nonetheless, there is no easy regimen of nutrition for these patients especially for the first week after operation.
Accordingly we present a simple method for improving feeding such patients via tube jejunostomy.
The relationship between Lichen Planus (LP) and diabetes was studied previously, but the results were in conflict.
An enchondroma is a benign and a well-differentiated chondrosarcoma is an invasive chondroid tumor with high recurrence potential.
In spite of biologic differences, these two tumors have very similar histopathologic appearance.
The aim of this study was to study the histopathologic distinction of enchondroma and well-differentiated chondrosarcoma using the density of the mast cells in fibrotic capsule.
The Motricity Index was used to measure strength in upper and lower extremities after stroke.
Among Candida species, Candida albicans is responsible for most infections.
Having many strains, C. albicans is very polymorph.
C. dubliniensis is very similar to albicans species both morphologically and physiologically.
For an infection to occur, cell wall proteins play an important role as they enable yeast to adhere to host cells and begin pathogenesis.
Therefore, we decided to extract these proteins and examine them through common molecular methods of protein analysis including SDS-PAGE.
Hypoglycaemia is a well recognized complication of falciparum malaria in children but its diagnosis may be overlooked because all the clinical features may be mimicked by severe malaria.
Shivering is one of the common problems in spinal anesthesia.
Latent adenocarcinoma of prostate refers to cases who present no obvious sign or symptom during their life spans and the tumor is incidentally found at postmortem examination.
Its frequency can be very important in epidemiologic investigations, prevention and treatment.
No previous study has been done in this regard in Iran and the studies performed in other countries show various results.
The most common laryngeal mass in children is recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP).
Studies have attempted to correlate viral typing and its aggressiveness.
The ministry of health and medical education of Iran and many other countries advice physicians to use this guideline for diagnosis and treatment of acute otitis media (AOM), but there is not any evaluation of effectiveness and obedience of this guideline, so the aim of this study was to evaluate the attitude of pediatricians, the most important group that interfere with these patients in treatment of acute otitis media.
The role of uric acid as a risk factor for vascular disease and acute stroke is controversial and there is little information about it.
Bilateral neck exploration is the gold standard for parathyroid adenoma localization in primary hyperparathyroidism.
But surgeons do not have adequate experience for accurate surgical exploration and new methods are developed for surgery like unilateral exploration and minimally invasive surgery, thus, preoperative localization could reduces time and stress in surgical performance.
Generalized joint hyper mobility predisposes some individuals to a wide variety of musculoskeletal complaints.
Radiography is the most widely available imaging modality.
Precise evaluations of wrist x-ray can help diagnosis and evaluate the prognosis of many wrist disorders.
The present study was done to find these possible relationships, based on using Medical Outcomes Survey-Short Form (SF-36).
Lower limbs antigravity muscles weakness and decreased functional ability have significant role in falling.
The aim of this study was to find the effects of aging on muscle strength and functional ability, determining the range of decreasing strength and functional ability and relationship between them in healthy women.
To determine the efficacy of three different antiseptic solutions (Control group (I), Antibiotic solution - Neomycin and polymyxin (II), Chlorhexidine 0.4% (III), and povidone - iodine 10% (IV)) in disinfecting contaminated bone fragments.
Patient-based measurements, such as Voice Handicap Index (VHI) add necessary supplementary information to clinical and physiological assessment.
There are a few studies about relation between VHI and disease severity in PD, although none of them showed any significant correlation.
There are controversies among surgeons about prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
The aim of this study was the assessment of patients' condition after laparoscopic cholecystectomy without any prophylactic measure.
To determine the efficacy of different antiseptic solutions (Control group (I), Antibiotic solution (II), Chlorhexidine 0.4% (III), and povidone - iodine 10% (IV)) in sterilizing contaminated osteochondral plugs.
Thyroid hormones play an important physiological role in human metabolism.
Erythrocyte abnormalities are frequently associated with thyroid disorder.
However, they are rarely investigated and related to the subclinical and primary hypothyroidism in Kashmiri Patients.
In this study an attempt was made to study hematological parameters in untreated and treated subclinical hypothyroidism and primary hypothyroidism patients.
Recurrent miscarriages, the loss of three or more consecutive intrauterine pregnancies before 20 weeks of gestation with the same partner, affect 1%-1.5% of the pregnant population.
The inadequate secretion of progesterone in early pregnancy has been proposed as a cause of recurrent miscarriages.
The present article briefly reviews the weight loss processes in combat sports.
We aimed to discuss the most relevant aspects of rapid weight loss (RWL) in combat sports.
Osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disorder characterized by reduction of one mass, deterioration of bone structure, increasing bone fragility, and increasing fracture risk.
Prevention of osteoporosis during childhood and adolescence is one of the most important issues in World Health Organization.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of Health Belief Model based intervention on promoting nutritional behaviors about preventive osteoporosis among the second grade middle school girl students.
Effective cancer pain management requires accurate knowledge, attitudes, and assessment skills.
The purpose of this study was to obtain information about the knowledge and attitudes of nurses concerning cancer pain management with the use Health Belief Model (HBM) as conceptual framework.
Normal vaginal delivery (NVD) is the best method of delivery, but its rate is decreasing.
In this study, we try to determine the related factors influencing the method of delivery selection by mothers in Yazd city, Iran, based on Health Belief Model (HBM).
Colorectal cancer is one of the most important and most common cancers and the second leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide.
The statistics reveal shocking incidence and mortality from colorectal cancer, therefore secondary prevention of this cancer is important and research has shown that by early diagnosis 90% of patients can be treated.
Among the colorectal cancer screening tests, fecal occult blood test (FOBT) takes the priority because of its convenience and also low cost.
But due to various reasons, the participation of people in this screening test is low.
The purpose of this study was to assess self-care practices and their relative components among type 2 diabetic patients.
We hypothesized that some sociodemographic and health-related factors, high diabetes distress, and low self-efficacy would be associated with poorer self-care practices.
Effective safety education can prevent many occupational accidents.
To -educate the public about safety effectively, determinants of safe behavior must be addressed.
Personality constructs are among the most important determinants of safe behavior.
The main aim of this study was designing, validating, and determining the reliability of safety locus of control scale.
The increasing trend in waste production and its improper disposal in the environment have led to mismanagement of national resources and hazards to the natural environment.
Today, the challenges of quality improvement and customer focus as well as systems development are important and inevitable matters in higher education institutes.
Universities provide different facilities for talented students.
Damages and loss of life sustained during an earthquake results from falling structures and flying glass and objects.
To address these and other problems, new information technology and systems as a means can improve crisis management and crisis response.
The most important factor for managing the crisis depends on our readiness before disasters by useful data.
Diabetes is one of the chronic diseases that have been considered by policy makers.
Diabetes causes premature mortality, disability and sometimes irreversible problems.
Although it is under consideration of doctors, there is no study about the role of the socioeconomic status of the patient in control of diabetes in our society.
The main purpose of this research is to explore relationship between socioeconomic status and control of diabetes.
Obesity is growing rapidly in our country.
Nutrition is an important issue of obesity.
The aim of this study was to determine the association between fruit and vegetable intake with the waist circumference and the body mass index (BMI) among young female university students.
Environmental natural radiation measurement is of great importance and interest especially for human health.
Limited health literacy can reduce the adults' ability to comprehend and use basic health-related materials, such as prescription, food labels, health education pamphlets, articles, appointment slips, and health insurance plans, which can affect their ability to take appropriate and timely health care action.
Nowadays, low health literacy is considered a worldwide health threat.
So, the purpose of this study was to assess health literacy level in older adults and to investigate the relationships between health literacy and health status, health care utilization, and health preventive behaviors.
Ecstasy consumption has increased 70% worldwide, and its use is currently outweighed heroin and cocaine.
Conducted survey found that students more than other groups used ecstasy pills.
Ecstasy usage has recently augmented in students.
Asthma is the most prevalent disease during childhood, known as the most important reason for children's disability adolescences truancies, thanks to their hospitalization and as a result intensification of disease symptom.
As per 2011 census sex ratio in India is 914/1000 males, which continues to be significantly adverse towards women.
Residents have an important role as teachers and need to know about teaching, teaching methods and skills.
In developed countries, "resident-as-teacher" programs have been implemented progressively; but there is little information about this theme in developing countries such as Iran.
Medical tourism is rapidly becoming a worldwide, multibillion-dollar industry.
Iran has a high potential for this industry.
The purpose of this study was to examine the medical tourism cluster, using Diamond Analysis tool.
The purpose of this study was to assess nutritional intakes of female aerobic athletes in two different socio-economic classes in city of Isfahan.
The increasing trend in waste production and its improper disposal in the environment have led to mismanagement of national resources and hazards to the natural environment.
Communication is the most important part of any educational process, the aim of which is to transfer or exchange ideas and thoughts.
It would be provided appropriately if academic members had the communication skills.
Education is basically one of the Universities' and faculties' leading missions and duties; its promoted quality will also lead to an elevated educational quality in the University.
Teacher assessment can be mentioned as essential for the success of the quality promotion process.
Quality gap is the gap between client's understanding and expectations.
The first step in removing this gap is to recognize client's understanding and expectations of the services.
This study aimed to determine women's viewpoint of quality gap in primary health care centers of Isfahan.
The aim of this study is to determine healthy life style in teachers employed in district No.4 in Isfahan, Iran, in 2010.
Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) has been reported to complicate fulminant tropical infections but data on severe HLH with multi-organ dysfunction (MODS) are scant.
Diabetes mellitus (DM), a growing health problem globally, has reached epidemic proportions in India.
Diagnosis and initial management of diabetes mellitus (DM) in the young are clinical dilemma.
Gliptins may be a safer and more effective option than sulfonylureas.
Few Indian studies have addressed this issue of clinical relevance.
Low or intermittent dose rosuvastatin has been shown to be useful in lowering cholesterol with fewer side-effects.
Supplementation with co-enzyme Q10 is suggested to reduce statin-induced myalgia.
Wolfram syndrome is a rare hereditary or sporadic neurodegenerative disorder also known as DIDMOAD.
Also included are less well-described presentations of Wolframs syndrome.
We here present three cases of atypical presentation of this syndrome.
CASE 1: A 15-year-old boy with insulin-dependent diabetes was presented for evaluation of depressive symptoms associated with suicidal tendency.
Neuropsychiatric manifestations are described with Wolframs syndrome, and wolframin gene, in recessive inheritance, is associated with psychiatric illnesses without other manifestations of Wolframs syndrome.
CASE 2: A 17-year-old diabetic boy on insulin with good control of blood sugar presented for evaluation of delayed puberty.
Central hypogonadism and other anterior pituitary hormone dysfunctions are the less publicized hormone dysfunctions in Wolframs syndrome.
This patient had developed a vitreous hemorrhage and, on evaluation, was found to have optic atrophy, sensory neural hearing loss, and diabetes insipidus, and presented differently from the gradual loss of vision described in Wolframs syndrome.
Celiac disease can have extra gastrointestinal tract (GIT) presentations, most of which are endocrine.
The aim and to highlight that although rare but congenital, hypogonadotropic hypogonadism may rarely present as ambiguity.
Mature and functional Sertoli cells are essential for the survival of germ cells in testes.
In Sertoli cell only syndrome (SCOS), there is no germ cells.
Then, question arises whether absence of germ cells in SCOS secondary to Sertoli cells immaturity or mal function.
Sertoli cells maturational and functional status is unclear in SCOS.
Fatty acid binding protein 2 (FABP2) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) are involved in cellular uptake and metabolism of fatty acids.
Polymorphism of FABP2 and PPAR may influence plasma levels of fatty acids in those who take supplemental eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA).
The purpose of this study was to study the potential associations between the Ala54/Thr polymorphism in FABP2 protein and the Leu162/Val in exon 5 and G/C in intron 7 of PPAR with plasma fatty acids composition after EPA supplementation.
Informal caregivers are important resources for community-dwelling frail elderly.
But caring can be challenging.
To be able to provide long-term care to the elderly, informal caregivers need to be supported as well.
Older people's influence is an important and required aspect of these practices.
This study's objective was to describe and analyse older people's influence on care-planning meetings at home and in hospital.
We report qualitative analyses from a three-year multi-method evaluation to identify barriers and facilitators to successful integration of care.
The interventions focused mainly on delivery system redesign and improved clinical information systems, two key elements of Wagner's Chronic Care Model.
The objective of this review was to assess the evidence on the relative cost or cost-effectiveness of all integrated care arrangements for stroke patients compared to usual care.
Integrated care was defined as a multidisciplinary tool to improve the quality and efficiency of evidence-based care and is used as a communication tool between professionals to manage and standardize the outcome-orientated care.
The patient assessment of chronic illness care (PACIC) is a promising instrument to evaluate the chronic care experiences of patients, yet additional validation is needed to improve its usefulness.
Integration involves the coordination of services provided by autonomous agencies and improves the organization and delivery of multiple services for target patients.
Current measures generally do not distinguish between agencies' perception and expectation.
We propose a method for quantifying the agencies' service integration.
Despite over two decades of international experience and research on health systems integration, integrated care has not developed widely.
We hypothesized that part of the problem may lie in how we conceptualize the integration process and the complex systems within which integrated care is enacted.
This study aims to contribute to discourse regarding the relevance and utility of a complex-adaptive systems (CAS) perspective on integrated care.
This review summarizes studies discussing vitamin D status in adults and reveals that vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency is highly prevalent in adults and that current fortification and supplementation policies are inadequate.
Hypoglossal-facial anastomosis is the gold standard treatment for facial reanimation in those cases where the facial nerve has been damaged near the brainstem.
The technique that requires temporal bone drilling and partial section of the hypoglossal nerve is usually preferred.
This technique diminishes tongue morbidity while preserves good facial reanimation.
The goal of the present work is to describe a simple technique to expose the mastoid portion of the facial nerve.
Cervical foraminotomy is an operation designed to decompress a single or multiple cervical nerve roots from a posterior approach.
Marshall's hypertonic citrate (HOC) and Bretschneider's histidine-tryptophan-ketoglutarate (HTK) preservation solutions are cheap, low viscosity preservation solutions used clinically for organ flushing.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of these two solutions both on parameters used in clinical practice to assess organ viability prior to transplantation and histological evidence of ischemic injury after reperfusion.
Cricopharyngeus is the only muscle for which electromyography is used in the differential diagnosis of swallowing disorders.
Because of some practical difficulties, electrophysiologic tests for this muscle are not performed routinely.
Thus we aimed to describe an alternative topographic way to reach the muscle easily.
Computer-based medical diagnostic decision support systems have been used for decades, initially as stand-alone applications.
More recent versions have been tested for their effectiveness in enhancing the diagnostic ability of clinicians.
Residency programs have struggled to teach and assess practice-based learning and improvement and systems-based practice competencies, particularly within ambulatory settings.
Professionalism is one of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education's core competencies.
Residency programs must teach residents about ethical principles, which is an essential component of professionalism.
Parents and caregivers look to pediatric health care providers for guidance on feeding, safety issues, and child-care products for children, but trainees have infrequent first-hand exposure to child products marketed to parents.
Experts have called for a comprehensive didactic curriculum in orthopaedic residency training.
Failure to comply with Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education-mandated resident work hour limitations can result in citations and shortened accreditation cycles.
Many programs assess compliance by collecting self-reports of work hours from each resident.
The article describes the experience of planning and implementing the transition of the residency program in obstetrics and gynecology at Singhealth, Singapore, from a model largely based on British training principles to a new model in accordance with the ACGME-International (ACGME-I) standards.
Stability is the main feature of fixation techniques in fracture management modalities, in vogue today.
One of the most significant landmarks in the armamentarium of maxillofacial fracture management has been the introduction of rigid internal fixation (RIF).
However, the inherent problems with metallic implants led to the introduction of resorbable polymers in RIF.
Compensatory errors require a prolonged period of speech intervention.
Scaffolding strategies are used for correcting placement and manner of articulation.
Cricket is a popular sport in New Zealand, enjoyed both at social and competitive level.
Although it is a non-contact sport and there is in place good facial protection, injury to the head and neck region is still frequently seen in the emergency department.
This study sought to determine the efficacy of cortical tibial bone graft for nasal augmentation.
Nine cases of augmentation rhinoplasty with cortical tibial bone graft are presented.
While surgical resection is the mainstay of treatment, the utility of multimodality therapy has not been well studied or established.
We sought to better evaluate the optimal treatment modality for sinonasal melanoma.
The two-tailed p-value for survival by treatment modality was determined.
There was a statistically significant increase in survival for surgery+chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone and versus surgery alone.
Radiation therapy did not appear to increase survival.
There may be a significant increase in overall survival with combined modality therapy with surgery and chemo/immunotherapy versus single modality therapy.
All of these dermatoses can be attributed to the profound hormonal, vascular, metabolic, and immunological changes occurring during pregnancy.
Intestinal gas is a frequent cause of poor visualization during gastrointestinal ultrasound (US).
The enzyme alpha-galactosidase may reduce intestinal gas production, thereby improving abdominal US visualization.
Real-time elastography (RTE) is a novel technique for measuring tissue elasticity.
More than 90% of all cases of bladder cancer are transitional cell carcinoma (TCC).
The goal of this study is to confirm the usefulness of low mechanical index contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CEUS), also in association with time-intensity curves, in the differentiation between high- and low-grade bladder malignant lesions.
Individual institutions govern research ethics applications and each must administer and regulate their own protocols.
Variations in ethics review procedures and expectations among centres impose impediments to efficiently conducting multicentre studies.
Plantar fasciitis can be a chronic and debilitating condition affecting athletes of all levels.
The aim of this study is to compare treatment outcomes for the treatment of chronic plantar fasciitis in athletes, comparing focused extra corporeal sound wave therapy (ESWT) and the surgical endoscopic plantar fasciotomy (EPF).
Pre and post Visual Analog Scores (VAS) and Roles and Maudlsey (RM) scores were recorded and compared between the three groups.
The patient's return to activity (RTA) was also documented.
In conclusion, EPF and ESWT are both effective forms of treatment for chronic plantar fasciitis; EPF being superior in outcomes yet ESWT treatment could be preferable since the athlete can remain active during treatment.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common human malignancy.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is expressed in wide variety of human malignancies and is of some therapeutic and prognostic utility.
The relationship between EGFR expression and regional lymph nodes involvement, and tumor grade in CRC has not been cleared, thus we decided to show it in a case-control study.
This study was designed to compare two methods of surgery, anterior subcutaneous transposition (ASCT) and anterior submuscular transposition (ASMT) of the ulnar nerve in treatment of cubital tunnel syndrome.
Breast cancer remains a substantial health concern in Iran due to delay and late stage at diagnosis and treatment.
For planning appropriate intervention, this study was carried out to identify mammography rates and explore determinants of mammography screening behavior in females of Isfahan, Iran.
Postoperative nausea and vomiting are some of the important and common side effects of anesthesia after surgery occurring in almost 20-30% of patients and is the second factor of a patient's complaint and inconvenience after pain.
This study compares the effect of oral cetirizine and ondansetron in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting in adults.
This approach was used to clarify key themes from parents' comments about challenges on paths to detect hearing impairment.
Beside this, ABO and Rh blood grouping are also important matter in transfusion and forensic medicine and to reduce new born hemolytic disease (NHD).
Today most of herbal medicines are marketing without any standard safety profiles.
Although common assumption is that these products are nontoxic but this assumption may be incorrect and dangerous, so toxicological studies should be done for herbal drugs.
According to the frequent use of Echium amoenum as immunostimulant and useful in conditions including pain, cough, sore throat and arthritis, and Nardostachys jatamansi as tranquilizer and sleep inducer and evidences of some toxicities, we assessed the probable effect of their extracts on DNA of hepG2 cells using the comet assay.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death and disability all over the world.
Regarding gender differences, the risk of developing coronary heart disease is recognized as being different between non-obese males and non-obese females.
Hence, the aim of this study is to assess the benefits of a comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation program (CRP) on the functional capacity and lipid profiles, such as, total cholesterol, triglycerides, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high density lipoprotein cholesterol in non-obese males and non-obese females with coronary artery disease, and comparing these groups.
Many of the 18 million emergency department visits by adolescents annually in the United States are for nonurgent problems that might be addressed in a primary care setting.
As the United States population ages, chronic conditions are becoming more prevalent and our healthcare system is faced with increasing costs.
This aging population with increased multiple chronic conditions coupled with increased burden of disease will provide a challenge to primary care physicians to provide quality care that is cost-effective.
Although a growing body of research has examined the association between food prices and the availability of fast food restaurants on weight outcomes, there is limited empirical evidence on the direct effect of eating behavior on body weight.
While cancer control and prevention efforts are well documented, limited information on this topic exists for Latina farmworkers in the rural Midwest.
This study sought to examine correlates of breast cancer and cervical cancer screening practices of English- and Spanish-speaking Latina farmworkers in Michigan.
The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends routine depression screening in primary care, yet regular screening does not occur in most health systems serving Alaska Native and American Indian people.
Despite approval of a vaccine found to be very effective in preventing human papillomavirus infection and related cancers, many young people have not yet been vaccinated.
Because health behaviors tend to co-occur, the purpose of the current study was to examine relationships among human papillomavirus vaccine uptake and other health behaviors among adolescents.
Patients generally access colorectal cancer (CRC) screening through primary care physicians.
National guidelines recommend CRC screening for adults beginning at age 50, yet one-third of Americans are not up to date.
Empirical evidence on the relationship between consumption of fruits and vegetables and body weight is inconclusive.
Previous studies mostly use linear regression methods to study the correlates of the conditional mean of body mass index (BMI).
This approach may be less informative if the association between fruit and vegetable consumption and BMI significantly varies across the BMI distribution.
Such information is important because of the toxicity associated with some arthritis treatments.
The Internet is a promising medium for engaging the community in preventive care and health promotion, particularly among those who do not routinely access health care.
Early and heavy drinking by younger adolescents is a significant public health problem linked to intellectual impairment, increased risk of injuries, mental health issues, unprotected or regretted sexual experience, violence, and sometimes accidental death, which leads to high social and economic costs.
This feasibility pilot trial aims to explore the feasibility of delivering brief alcohol intervention in a school setting with adolescents aged 14 and 15 and to examine the acceptability of study measures to school staff, young people and parents.
A third of Americans have low health literacy (HL).
We have recently determined the hemodynamic effects of 1,3-dimethylamylamine and caffeine alone and in combination, using a single ingestion study.
However, no study has determined the hemodynamic effects of these ingredients following chronic use.
Moreover, no study has determined the effects of these ingredients on bloodborne variables related to health and safety.
It is possible that such findings may favor body weight and fat loss over time.
Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of this dietary supplement on weight loss and associated markers using an eight week intervention.
Dietary supplements are often marketed to increase lipolysis and thermogenesis, with the proposed end result being weight loss and body fat reduction.
1,3-dimethylamylamine is a commonly used ingredient within dietary supplements.
Our prior work with this agent indicates a transient increase in blood pressure (systolic in particular) following oral ingestion of a single dosage, but no significant increase in resting blood pressure following chronic ingestion.
The cancellation of surgery is a significant drain on health resources.
However, a persistent problem in most hospitals is short notice cancellation of scheduled operations, even upto the day of surgery.
In some cases, patients have been prepared for surgery, and the staff is assembled and expecting to operate.
In UK 8% of scheduled elective operations are cancelled within 24hours of surgery.
The reasons include cancellation by the patient, cancellation for poorly optimized medical conditions, or cancellations due to poor organization.
Many of these are difficult to quantify.
However, one relatively easily measured factor is the possibility that some operating lists were predictably over-booked.
An operating list may over-run because of delayed starts, slow turnover, unanticipated surgical/anaesthetic problems or staff shortages.
Many of these are difficult to quantify.
Over two million pilgrims perform annual rituals in Makkah region, which when coincides with summer months, exposes them to outdoor temperatures exceeding 45C and humidity approaching 80%.
Accordingly, heat illnesses are common including explicit heat strokes and heat exhaustion.
No previous studies elaborated on electrocardiographic changes among this unique cohort.
Post-cardiotomy shock (PCS) has a complex etiology.
Although treatment with inotrops and intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) support improves cardiac performance, end-organ injuries are common and lead to prolonged ICU stay, extended hospitalization and increased mortality.
Early consideration of mechanical circulatory support may prevent such complications and improve outcome.
Worldwide congenital heart defects (CHD) are the leading cause of infant deaths owing to congenital anomalies.
Delay in diagnosing and operating in neonates with prostaglandin dependant CHD may lead to significant morbidity and mortality.
A PubMed Central (PMC) literature search without date restrictions was performed for articles reporting on the medical experience during Hajj.
There were 109 articles were returned using "Hajj" and "mortality" as search terms.
After determining relevance to the current theme based on both direct and indirect reference to the pattern hospital admission during Hajj, 20 articles reporting on conducted studies were obtained.
Cleft lip and/or palate are among the most common birth defects in the world.
The effect of long-term water immersion on the shear bond strength between denture base resin and Triad visible-light-polymerized (VLP) direct hard reline resin is not known.
Sex hormones play an important role in periodontal health and disease.
For example, puberty, menses, pregnancy, menopause, and oral contraceptive use influence a woman's periodontal health.
Periodontal infection has also been associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes.
Subsequently, it is important that gynecologists are educated about hormonal effects on women's oral health.
The current study assessed gynecologist's awareness regarding the effect of female sex hormones on periodontal health, preterm delivery, and maternal periodontal disease.
Occlusal surfaces of molars are especially susceptible to the development of caries due to the features, such as pits and deep fissures, of their anatomical structure.
please see Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy).
This article has been retracted at the request of the Editor-in-Chief and Author.
Myopia has been identified as a risk factor for globe perforation during regional anaesthesia for cataract surgery.
Advances in optic nerve and retinal imaging have dramatically changed the care of glaucoma patients, complementing the importance of the clinical exam of the optic nerve and automated perimetry in making the diagnosis of glaucoma.
Computerized imaging, however, does not replace the clinical exam, as there can be overlap in the appearance of non-glaucomatous optic neuropathies with glaucoma.
The anemia of end stage renal disease (ESRD) is common and often severe complication that can be managed successfully by erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA) administration.
Homemade and folk remedies' use is widely practiced in under developed countries, of the used materials are plant extracts, lemon juice and some dried insect bodies.
The disposal of unwanted medications has been a concern in many countries, as pharmaceutical waste enters the ecosystem, ultimately having an effect on human health and environment.
Earlier studies in Kuwait found that the method of disposal by the public was by disposing in the garbage or by flushing down the drain.
In accordance with patient preference and environment safety, it would be appropriate to use local government pharmacies as collection points for proper disposal.
Inadequate access to useful scientifically accurate patient information is a major cause of the inappropriate use of drugs resulting in serious personal injury and related costs to the health care system.
There is very little published data assessing hospital pharmacy practice in Saudi Arabia.
Hence, a comprehensive survey has been undertaken to evaluate hospital pharmacy services of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Recently, we published the survey results on the prescribing and transcribing steps of the medication use process.
This paper focuses on dispensing and administration.
The smartphone-application, together with the psychoeducation, aims to function as a self-help intervention for living consistently with one's values.
The study is an exploratory investigation of this new smartphone-based tool.
Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is an effective treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that would occasionally lead to energy malnutrition through therapeutic hypoxic stress.
Zoning is a fundamental tool for the effective management of nature reserves.
The objective of this study was to assess factors that affect breast cancer patients' recall of patient assistance services.
Enforced cell transdifferentiation of human cancer cells is a promising alternative to conventional chemotherapy.
We previously identified albumin-associated lipid- and, more specifically, saturated fatty acid-induced transdifferentiation programs in human cancer cells (HCCLs).
In this study, we further characterized the adipocyte-like cells, resulting from the transdifferentiation of human cancer cell lines MCF-7 and MALME-3M, and proposed a common mechanistic approach for these transdifferentiating programs.
Most importantly, these results also showed the upregulation of genes responsible for Clathrin (CLTC) and other adaptor-related proteins.
An increase in CLTC expression in the transdifferentiated cells was confirmed by western blotting.
Inactivation of CLTC by chlorpromazine (CHP), an inhibitor of CTLC mediated endocytosis (CME), and gene silencing by siRNAs, partially reversed the accumulation of neutral lipids observed in the transdifferentiated cells.
These findings give a deeper insight into the phenotypic changes observed in HCCL to adipocyte-like transdifferentiation and point towards CME as a key pathway in distinct transdifferentiation programs.
Simon C and Aguilar-Gallardo C are co-inventors of the International Patent Application No.
PCT/EP2011/004941 entitled "Methods for tumor treatment and adipogenesis differentiation".
The spectrum of BRCA1/2 genetic variation in breast-ovarian cancer patients has been scarcely investigated outside Europe and North America, with few reports for South America, where Amerindian founder effects and recent multiracial immigration are predicted to result in high genetic diversity.
Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are the two most serious and debilitating neuropsychiatric disorders that share many characteristics, both symptomatic and epidemiological.
There has yet to be a single diagnostic biomarker discovered for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Proteomics holds promise in elucidating the pathophysiology of these neuropsychiatric disorders from each other and healthy individuals.
Colored group field theory has been introduced in order to improve the renormalizability of the theory and associates colors to the faces of the simplices.
The theory of crystallizations is instead a field at the boundary between graph theory and combinatorial topology and deals with n-simplices as colored graphs.
Several techniques have been introduced in order to study the topology of the pseudo-manifold associated to the colored graph.
Antipsychotic polypharmacy remains a widespread and persistent practice, despite a lack of empirical evidence to support its safety and efficacy.
This study aimed to assess antipsychotic treatment prior to the initiation of polypharmacy and ascertained clinicians' reasons for coprescribing long term.
This was interpreted as the presence of an antipsychotic medication-induced supersensitivity psychosis.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of quercetin supplementation on neurocognitive functioning.
Antipsychotic long-acting injections (LAIs) reduce covert nonadherence with medication in the clinical management of psychotic disorders.
However, they are variably utilised by clinicians, especially in the long term.
Factors including poor knowledge, stigma and perceived coercion can all adversely influence LAI utilisation.
Previous research has emanated almost exclusively from developed countries.
This study explores the knowledge and attitudes of psychiatrists and trainees in Nigeria towards LAIs.
free radicals, cytokines and metabolic products induce glomerular endothelial dysfunction, hemodynamic maladjustment and chronic ischemic state;this leads to tubulointerstitial fibrosis in chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Altered vascular homeostasis observed in late stage CKD revealed defective angiogenesis and impaired nitric oxide production explaining therapeutic resistance to vasodilator treatment in late stage CKD.
This view is supported by the normal or mildly impaired vascular homeostasis observed in early stage CKD.
Treatment at this early stage can potentially enhance renal perfusion, correct the renal ischemic state and restore renal function.
Thus, this alternative therapeutic approach would effectively prevent end-stage renal disease.
The common age for boys to have OSD is between 12 and 15 years and for girls, between 8 and 12 years.
Radiographic studies are helpful in diagnosis and treatment of OSD.
The purpose of this study was to report on the health benefits and curative effects of aquatic exercise.
Recent studies have shown that personal best marathon time is a strong predictor of race time in male ultramarathoners.
Overuse injury including stress fracture is a serious problem for athletes.
Recently, the importance of bone metabolism and quality as factors preventing overuse injury has been increasingly recognized.
Hence, we hypothesized that markers of bone metabolism and quality are related to overuse injuries.
The aim of this study was to assess the relationships between the propulsive force during swimming and arm muscle area (AMA) and propose an equation to estimate the propulsive force in young swimmers by measuring their AMA.
Of the anthropometry and training variables used to predict race performance in a 24-hour ultrarun, the personal best marathon time is the strongest predictor in recreational male 24-hour ultramarathoners.
This finding raises the question of whether similarities exist between male recreational 24-hour ultramarathoners and male recreational marathoners.
We describe a runner who completed a self-paced marathon (42.195 km) in a climate chamber with a temperature difference of 100C, starting at an ambient temperature (Tambient) of -45C and finishing at an Tambient of +55C.
A recent study showed that European triathletes performed faster in Double Iron ultratriathlons than North American athletes.
The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is an important structure in the knee.
The ACL does not heal following lesions, and surgical reconstruction is the standard treatment among athletes.
Some steps of ACL reconstruction remain controversial.
It is important to fully understand the anatomy of the ACL to accurately reproduce its anatomy during surgical reconstructions.
However, studies have yet to investigate the 10 to 19 year-old age group.
The purpose of this study was to establish the clinical performance of a urine-based assay, called a multianalyte diagnostic readout, in monitoring for bladder cancer recurrence.
Mutations in FGFR3 have been shown to occur in tumors of the upper urothelial tract and may be indicative of a good prognosis.
Pathological evaluation of upper urothelial tumors is currently the best predictor of prognosis, but suffers from variability in pathological assessments.
Active engagement in the learning process is important to enhance learners' knowledge acquisition and retention and the development of their thinking skills.
This study evaluated whether a 1-hour faculty development workshop increased the use of active teaching strategies and enhanced residents' active learning and thinking.
Yet, implementing direct observation in an effective and sustainable way is hampered by demands on physicians' time and shrinking resources for educational innovation.
The role of residents as teachers has grown over time.
Programs have been established within various specialties to formally develop these skills.
Anesthesiology residents are frequently asked to provide supervision for novice learners and have numerous opportunities for teaching skills and clinical decision making.
Yet, there are no educational programs described in the literature to train anesthesiology residents to teach novice learners.
Studies have suggested that patient contact time for internal medicine residents is decreasing and being replaced with computer-related activities, yet objective data regarding computer use by residents are lacking.
Scholarly activity is a requirement for accreditation by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.
There is currently no uniform definition used by all Residency Review Committees (RRCs).
The reported major complications of this procedure include temporary or permanent facial nerve weakness, Frey's syndrome and salivary leaks.
In order to avoid these complications, a local extracapsular dissection technique can be utilised in the management of small inferiorly located benign lesions of the parotid gland.
Osteomas are benign neoplasm often associated with facial asymmetry, pain and surface ulceration.
Peripheral osteomas are more common in the cranio-maxillofacial region.
It is prevalent at younger age but maximum seen in the sixth decade, with a female to male ratio is 1:2.
The aim of this study was to review the clinical presentations and management protocol of such lesions in cranio-maxillofacial region.
: To evaluate the efficacy of autologous platelet rich fibrin in soft tissue healing and bone regeneration in mandibular third molar extraction sockets.
Inversion of the impacted tooth is a rare condition.
The purpose of this article is to review this rare condition in detail on the basis of available literature.
In addition, this article also explores the various multidisciplinary approaches varying from space creation to prosthodontic rehabilitation and reimplantation to endodontic treatment for inverted impacted teeth.
Dentigerous cyst develops in the follicular tissue surrounding the impacted lower third molar.
Maternal-fetal attachment has not been formally studied among pregnant Indian women using Cranley's 24-item maternal-fetal attachment scale.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) poses numerous problems for both mother and fetus.
The ability of the Rourke Baby Record (Rourke) and the Nipissing District Developmental Screen (NDDS) to detect developmental delay is not known.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with obesity.
We retrospectively studied the clinicopathology and different hepatic adipocytokine expressions between nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and non-NASH in morbid obesity.
The hallmark features of obesity include insulin resistance and an impaired ability to oxidize lipids.
As compared to exercise training, it remains relatively unclear if diet-induced weight loss can also induce fat metabolism.
This study was undertaken to examine the effects of diet-induced weight loss on fat metabolism during a single session of exercise in middle-aged obese men.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether there is a sex difference on appetite after acute rope skipping exercise.
Obesity and depression are closely linked, and each has been associated with disability.
However, few studies have assessed inter-relationships between these conditions.
Both obesity and left ventricular (LV) diastolic dysfunction are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
There is a paucity of data as to whether obesity is independently associated with LV diastolic dysfunction.
We have found previously that ventromedial hypothalamic lesions (VMH) enhance cell proliferation in the visceral organs through vagal hyperactivity in rats.
The goal of the current study was to determine the characteristics and nature of cell proliferation in the small intestine in VMH-lesioned mice.
The pathogenesis of thiazolidinediones (TZDs)-induced hepatic steatosis in genetically obese diabetic mice has not been fully clarified.
We herein examined the effects of pioglitazone treatment on liver histology.
However, food acceptability scores significantly favoured the WD, suggesting that the KD was less enjoyable to this Western population.
The associations of such habits with psychosomatic problems and preference for strong tastes require further exploration.
Summay:
Insulin resistance is an important pathogenic factor in type 2 diabetes patents.
An easy and efficiency measurement predicting insulin resistance; which can be done easily by type 2 patients is desired.
Insulin resistance (IR) and visceral obesity are often observed in adult growth hormone deficiency patients (AGHDs).
However, there is little information regarding the intrahepatic lipid (IHL) or the intramyocellular lipid (IMCL) content and their association with IR in AGHDs.
The aim of this study was to directly assess IHL and IMCL in AGHDs by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and to evaluate the association of lipid levels with IR.
Stimulation was performed in a long- protocol and ovarian stimulation, using rFSH follitropin beta, starting on the third day of the menstrual cycle.
The rFSH dose per day was 900 IU-0 IU-0 IU-0 IU.
Due to normal ovarian response and follicle growth, stimulation was continued and there was no detriment in oocyte quality and no symptoms of OHSS.
Following blastocyte transfer cesarean section was unpreventable at 37+5 weeks of gestation due to an impacted transverse lie.
In the case of injection errors, continuing stimulation protocol seems to be achievable in certain cases considering hormone levels and the process of follicle growth.
Clinical symptoms of acute 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) intoxication and malignant hyperthermia have many similarities.
At present, however, there is contradictory evidence concerning the malignant hyperthermia trigger potency of MDMA.
The present project has been supported by the R+D programme from the Generalitat Valenciana (Regional Valencian Government) IMPIVA MIDTF/2010/95.
The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
This study was supported by 1M15/N/2011 and NK1W grants from the I Faculty of Medicine, Warsaw Medical University.
None of the authors has any competing interests to declare.
The funding for this project was received from the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientfico e Tecnolgico (CNPq) as a scholarship for Ms Camargo.
There was no conflict of interest.
None of the authors has any competing interest.
This study was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (81170574), The National Key Basic Research Development Plan of China (973 Program) (2007CB948104), Comprehensive strategic sciences cooperation projects of Guangdong Province and Chinese Academy (04020416) and Guangzhou Science and Technology Program key projects (11C22120737).
C.M.
was supported by a Canadian Institutes of Health Research doctoral research award at the time of this study.
No competing interests are declared.
Financial support was provided by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Excellence Initiative of the Hamburg Foundation for Research and the Association for Prevention and Information for Allergy and Asthma (Pina e.V.).
The authors have no conflict of interest.
This research was supported by the Instituut voor de aanmoediging van innovatie door Wetenschap en Technologie in Vlaanderen (IWT-Vlaanderen).
A.M. is a PhD student at the IWT-Vlaanderen.
C.S.
is a postdoctoral fellow at the FWO Vlaanderen.
There are no competing interests.
None.
This study was not funded, and there are no conflicts of interest.
This work was supported by the Foundation for Reproductive Medicine, New York, New York, USA, a not-for-profit research foundation and intramural grants from the Center for Human Reproduction (CHR)-New York.
N.G.
and D.H.B.
N.G.
is owner of CHR-New York, where the study was conducted.
N.G.
and D.H.B.
have been recipients of research awards, travel grants and speaker honoraria from various pharmaceutical and medical device companies.
None of these companies was, however, in any way associated with the materials and the manuscript presented here.
N.G.
and D.H.B.
N.G.
is on the board of a medically related company, not in any way associated with the data presented here.
There was no funding source for this study.
This study was funded by SPD Swiss Precision Diagnostics, GmbH, manufacturer of Clearblue() pregnancy and ovulation tests.
This trial is supported by a grant of the Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development (ZonMw Clinical fellow grant 90700154).
F.V.M.
is holder of an aspirant clinical research mandate by the Flemish foundation of Scientific Research (FWO-Vlaanderen).
B.H.
is supported by a Ghent University grant (KAN-BOF E/01321/01).
P.D.S.
is holder of a fundamental clinical research mandate by the same Flemish foundation of Scientific Research (FWO-Vlaanderen).
The authors do not have any competing interest.
Further multicenter prospective studies are needed to strengthen our current findings.
This work was supported by Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education, Sports, Culture, Science and Technology of Japan.
There is no conflict of interest related to this study.
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Research by V.V.B.
supported by Research Council KUL: GOA MaNet, PFV/10/002 (OPTEC), several PhD/postdoc &amp; fellow grants; IWT: TBM070706-IOTA3, PhD Grants; IBBT; Belgian Federal Science Policy Office: IUAP P7/(DYSCO, `Dynamical systems, control and optimization', 2012-2017).
T.B.
is supported by the Imperial Healthcare NHS Trust NIHR Biomedical Research Centre.
None.
Information on 'age at maternal menopause' was obtained retrospectively and may be prone to recall bias and digit preference.
The study population consisted of health care workers, which implies a potential selection bias.
Finally, the cross-sectional nature of the data limits the generalizability.
This study was co-financed by PhD scholarships where funding was covered by the Danish Agency for Science, Technology and Innovation, Copenhagen Graduate School of Health Science (CGSHS) and the Fertility Clinic at Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshopitalet.
No competing interests are declared.
This study is supported by Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Scientific Unit, Horsens Hospital.
No competing interests declared.
Endoscopic perforations are surgically repaired by using an omentum patch.
Omentum substitutes may have broader applications particularly in certain sites (eg, esophagus).
Numerous transient effects of anesthesia on postoperative immune status have been documented in the literature.
Quinacrine (QC), an antimalarial drug, has been shown to possess anticancer effect both in vitro (cancer cell lines) and in vivo (mouse models).
However, the experimental results come from a few limited cancer cell lines, and the detailed mechanisms remain unknown.
The long-term (6 months) tolerability and efficacy of single-pill combinations of T40-T80/A5-A10 have now been evaluated in 2 open-label studies in patients who had successfully completed either TEAMSTA-5 or TEAMSTA-10 (TEAMSTA-5 and TEAMSTA-10 Follow-Ups).
The venous cannulation procedure was widely used in many clinical procedures; however, it is associated with pain or discomfort.
2-Amino-2-[2-(4-octylphenyl)ethyl] propane-1,3-diol hydrochloride (FTY720) is a novel agent with protective effect on several markers of liver injury.
It is a chemical substance derived by modifying myriocin from the ascomycete Isaria sinclairii.
It has been reported that FTY720 is able to treat autoimmune encephalomyelitis, renal cancer, asthma, and multiple sclerosis.
More potent clinical applications of FTY720 need to be investigated.
Radiation therapy is the most prescribed treatment for many oncologic indications.
One of its common side effects is mucositis with hallmark apoptosis in the intestinal crypt and diarrhea.
Huang-Lian-Jie-Du-Tang (HLJDT) is the classical traditional Chinese recipe for heat clearance and detoxification and is used in diabetic patients in the clinical practice of traditional Chinese medicine.
Linezolid (LZD), an oxazolidinone antibiotic agent, has excellent activity and bioavailability against most methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant gram-positive bacteria.
Although LZD is generally well tolerated, several studies have found adverse hematologic effects, of which thrombocytopenia is of most concern.
Gastroesophageal reflux (GER) is a common clinical pathology detected in childhood.
Bile acids (BAs) are present in reflux and cause various pathologies in the esophagus, the larynx, and the lungs.
SUMMARY
SUMMARY
Nasal modes of respiratory support cause variable amounts of gastric dilatation which may increase gastro-oesophageal reflux (GER) in preterms.
Cutaneous manifestations are early and easily identifiable markers of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection.
They can help in predicting severity and progress of the disease and can be correlated well with CD4 counts.
This study was undertaken to study the cutaneous manifestations of HIV infection and to correlate them with CD4 counts.
It also aimed to study the changing spectrum of these manifestations and describe cutaneous manifestations seen in advanced disease.
The main blood borne viruses' viz.
This study analysed the trends of blood borne infections among blood donors in a large blood bank in the last 10 years.
Sleep-disordered breathing has been strongly associated with systemic hypertension.
Increased sympathetic activity in sleep-disordered breathing may be responsible for this association.
This study retrospectively analyses the initial experience of liver transplantation (LT) in the Indian Armed Forces.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is common in renal transplant (RT) patients.
Some of these patients remain anti-HCV negative despite presence of infection and these are identified by a positive HCV-ribonucleic acid (RNA) test.
This study was conducted to compare the efficacy of intracervical misoprostol with vaginal misoprostol in achieving cervical ripening before operative hysteroscopy.
The risk of congenital malformations among children conceived via ART is contemplated to be high.
Violence affects the lives of millions of women worldwide, in all socioeconomic classes.
Violence and the fear of violence are emerging as important risk factor contributing to the vulnerability to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection for women.
The objective of the present cross sectional study is to compare the experiences of domestic violence between HIV-positive and HIV-negative married women seeking treatment in a tertiary care hospital.
The literature is scanty with regard to investigations of the 'sag' resistance of base metal alloys commonly used for ceramo-metal restorations and specifically for long-span restorations.
An in vitro study was carried out to investigate the effects of surface finishing and simulated porcelain-firing on the sag resistance of long-span ceramo-metal frameworks using base metal alloys.
Thanks to new advanced techniques, as well as intensity modulated radiation therapy, it is possible to approach head and neck recurrences in selected patients.
It seems possible to expect a reduction of out-of-field dose when flattening filter free (FFF) beams are used.
While research into the physics domain for FFF beams is increasing, there are very few clinical data where FFF beams are applied in clinical practice.
AIRO Giovani is a part of AIRO composed by members under 40 years old.
Its main activities are scientific and educational meetings dedicated to young Italian radiation oncologists and collaborative research projects.
It is a well-known fact that cancer patients can be affected by malnutrition at the onset of the disease and during treatment due to the toxicity.
Pretreatment weight loss alone does not predict those who will need nutritional supplementation.
Instead, a variety of nutritional and tumor related factors needs to be taken into account.
Smartphones and tablets are new handheld devices always connected to an information source and capable of providing instant updates, they allow doctors to access the most updated information and provide decision support at the point of care.
Radiation oncology is a field that has rapidly advanced over the last century.
It holds a rich tradition of clinical care and evidence-based practice, and more recently has advanced with revolutionary innovations in technology and computer science, as well as pharmacology and molecular biology.
High-energy photon and electron therapeutic beams generated in medical linear accelerators can cause the electronuclear and photonuclear reactions in which neutrons with a broad energy spectrum are produced.
A low-energy component of this neutron radiation induces simple capture reactions from which various radioisotopes originate and in which the radioactivity of a linac head and various objects in the treatment room appear.
The neck region contains a high density of vital organ structures within a relatively small and unprotected anatomic region, making it one of the most vulnerable areas of the body for all types of injuries.
Head injury (HI) is preventable and knowledge of the epidemiology of children's HI is essential for developing preventive strategies.
Burns are major cause of death and disability worldwide, particularly in the developing countries.
Injury to the liver is a commonly encountered problem in trauma cases and is a frequent cause of morbidity and mortality.
Ocular trauma is a significant health problem in pediatric patients.
Burn pain is recognized as being maximal during therapeutic procedures, and wound debridement can be more painful than the burn injury itself.
Although opiates are excellent analgesics, they do not effectively prevent central sensitization to pain.
The anticonvulsant gabapentin has been proven effective for treating neuropathic pain in large placebo-controlled clinical trials.
Experimental and clinical studies have demonstrated antihyperalgesic effects in models with central neuronal sensitization.
It has been suggested that central neuronal sensitization may play an important role in postoperative pain.
Soccer is a contact sport in which the players are frequently faced with the risk of injury.
It has been shown that the force exerted on the head during heading can be as much as 500-1200 Newton (N).
Therapeutic hypothermia is one of the few interventions that improve mortality and neurologic outcomes in patients who have experienced cardiac arrest.
There is a lack of validated tools to predict survival in patients who have undergone hypothermia after cardiac arrest (HACA).
Therapeutic hypothermia (TH) after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is associated with adverse events, for example hypokalemia and arrhythmias.
The use of therapeutic hypothermia (TH) is a burgeoning treatment modality for post-cardiac arrest patients.
Effective control of postoperative pain remains one of the most important and pressing issues in the field of surgery and has a significant impact on our health care system.
Analgesic modalities, if properly applied, can prevent or at least minimize this needless suffering and these complications.
Apart from conservative management, various interventional pain management procedures have been reported.
Intraarticular deposteroid injection has been described as the most evidence-based, but different various radio frequency (RF) procedures have been described with varied success.
Conventional bipolar RF is relatively new in the management of SI joint pain.
We have successfully managed pain of the SI joint origin.
Pain after total knee arthroplasty is severe and impacts functional recovery.
The control of postoperative pain is important in children, and poor pain control leads to organ dysfunction and behavioral problems.
Midazolam is a water soluble benzodiazepine which is frequently administered by intravenous and oral routes in our institution.
Its nasal spray has become recently available.
Blood loss in spine surgery is an important issue, even though it has been understudied compared with hip and knee arthroplasty.
Pulsed radiofrequency (PRF) treatment is defined as the delivery of short pulses of radiofrequency via a needle tip, which does not result in an actual thermal lesions.
There are mixed views regarding the use of PRF for trigeminal neuralgia (TN).
In our opinion, one of the main reasons for the contrasting views is the insufficient PRF dose employed in previous studies.
Afebrile pneumonia syndrome in infants, also called infant pneumonitis, pneumonia caused by atypical pathogens or whooping cough syndrome is a major cause of severe lower respiratory infection in young infants, both in developing countries and in developed countries.
In the departments of the Vaups and Guaviare, in southeastern Colombia, in a transitional area between Amazonia and the eastern plains, inhabit indigenous groups belonging to the Tukanoan (East) and Guahiban linguistic families.
Although some studies have dealt with the culture and the cosmology description of these groups, little research has been done on the biological diversity and genetic relationships of such groups.
Children present with flatfoot from birth and it resolves along infancy.
Nutritional support generates complications that must be detected and treated on time.
In these circumstances it is necessary to determinate whether the population is sub-structured because this can bias studies associated with this disease.
The puerperium is a stage that produces changes and adaptations in women, couples and family.
Effective coping, during this stage, depends on the relationship between the demands of stressful or difficult situations and the recourses that the puerperal individual has.
Roy (2004), in her Middle Range Theory about the Coping and Adaptation Processing, defines Coping as the ''behavioral and cognitive efforts that a person makes to meet the environment demands''.
For the puerperal individual, the correct coping is necessary to maintain her physical and mental well being, especially against situations that can be stressful like breastfeeding and return to work.
According to Lazarus and Folkman (1986), a resource for coping is to have someone who receives emotional support, informative and / or tangible.
is an intracellular bacteria who causes murine typhus.
His importance is reflected in the high frequency founding specific antibodies against Rickettsia typhi in several worldwide seroepidemiological studies, the seroprevalence ranging between 3-36%.
Natural reservoirs of R. typhi are rats (some species belonging the Rattus Genus) and fleas (Xenopsylla cheopis) are his vector.
This infection is associated with overcrowding, pollution and poor hygiene.
Typically presents fever, headache, rash on trunk and extremities, in some cases may occur organ-specific complications, affecting liver, kidney, lung or brain.
Initially the disease is very similar to other diseases, is very common to confuse the murine typhus with Dengue fever, therefore, ignorance of the disease is a factor related to complications or non-specific treatments for the resolution of this infection.
This paper presents the most relevant information to consider about the rickettsiosis caused by Rickettsia typhi.
This has aroused great interest in the search for more accurate parameters to determine cardiac preload and a patient's blood volume.
The negative homozygous condition for the Duffy blood group (Fy-/Fy-) confers natural resistance to Plasmodium vivax infection.
Studies carried out in pursuing this direction in Colombia are scarce.
Breastfeeding promotion is one of the most important strategies against infant mortality and to control child undernourishment.
Despite policies and plans to promote and protect breastfeeding in Colombia, its practice is low and its duration is short.
Achondroplasia is the most frequent form of short-limb dwarfism.
Although the etiology of this disease was reported in 1994, evidence of this disease in ancient populations has been found in populations of ancient Egypt (2500 BC) and it has been documented in ancient American populations.
Although the association of infection by toxoplasmosis with the development of nephrotic syndrome is uncommon, cases of this association have nevertheless been reported in the literature for more than two decades, not only for congenital toxoplasmosis, but also in acquired cases, and occasionally in immunocompetent patients.
In Colombia, information on cancer morbidity at the population level is limited.
Incidence estimates for most regions are based on mortality data.
The Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) incidence has markedly changed in the general population since the onset of the AIDS epidemic in the eighties and after the introduction of the Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) in the nineties.
Cancer is an important cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.
Population-based cancer registries (PBCRs) make possible to estimate the burden of this condition.
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and cataract formation are common in older people.
There are four alpha-AR antagonists currently available to treat BPH.
The uroselective alpha-blocker tamsulosin is the most commonly used drug among all.
Studies showed that the majority of the patients who develop intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) were on tamsulosin.
Women are more likely to develop cataract than men and some recent studies showed that tamsulosin is effective in treating female lower urinary tract symptoms and thereby can cause IFIS during cataract surgery.
To assess the feasibility of single-incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) in some urological surgeries.
Balanced chromosomal translocations are a relatively common (2-7%) finding among infertile couples.
We report clinical features of males with translocations at our institution.
Bladder outlet obstruction in younger men is often secondary to urethral stricture disease.
In the older population it is often a result of benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Metastatic melanoma to the bladder is rarely reported, and the role of surgery is still largely unknown.
We review 4 such cases and highlight their management and outcomes.
We also review the relevant literature.
The aim of this study was to investigate angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptors in rat bladder smooth muscle cells and alterations of AT1 receptors by diabetes mellitus and diuretic states.
It is not unusual for bladder tumors to appear following transitional cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract (UUT), with involvement of the UUT, following invasive bladder cancer, being less common.
The synchronous presence of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and of the UTT is exceptional.
Keloids are benign dermal scars characterized by enhanced growth factor signaling, hyperproliferation activity and reduced extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition of hyaluronic acid.
Our hypothesis is that high molecular weight HA can be used to replenish HA deposition in keloids thereby normalizing the keloid fibroblast phenotype.
Mucinous cysts are lesions with malignant potential.
Their management is stil difficult.
Ethanol lavage under EUS can be used and could be a good alternative treatment.
The regenerative potential of brain has led to emerging therapies that can cure clinico-motor deficits after neurological diseases.
Bone marrow mononuclear cell therapy is a great hope to mankind as these cells are feasible, multipotent and aid in neurofunctional gains in Stroke patients.
Saliva circulating in the mouth at any given time is termed as whole saliva and comprises of mixtures of secretions from major and minor salivary glands and traces from gingival crevicular fluid.
This saliva in the form of unstimulated/stimulated salivary parameters governs the overall homeostatic mechanism of mouth.
Microleakage around dental restorative materials is a major problem in clinical dentistry.
Inspite of many new restorative materials available in the market very few actually bond to the tooth surface.
Other terms for dental caries in preschool children, which inappropriately may imply cause for the disease, includes baby bottle tooth decay, nursing caries, milk bottle syndrome, baby bottle caries, nursing bottle mouth and nursing mouth.
Crowding and irregularity remain a consistent problem for children.
Management of space problems continues to play an important role in a dental practice.
It also represents an area of major interaction between the primary provider and the specialists.
The use of rotary cutting instrument can harm the pulp by exposure of mechanical vibration and heat generation (in some cases).
Whereas, the large diameter of the disk obstructs vision of the working area.
Also fracturing away a portion is a common problem with disk.
The use of metallic abrasive strip is the safest procedure amongst the above.
To avoid this inconvenience here with a simple and economical way of fabricating strip holder from routine lab material is presented.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of ethanol and strontium on growth and development of mice embryos arrested at the two-cell stage.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) complicates 3-7% of all pregnancies and fetomaternal outcomes are strongly related to early diagnosis of GDM.
Therefore, the aim of this study was to determine the stability of saturated and unsaturated FAs in ram's sperm despite removing FA sources from their diet.
Multiple births occur frequently in some Iranian sheep breeds, while infertility scarcely occurs.
Mutation detection in major fecundity genes has been explored in most of Iranian sheep flocks over the last decade.
However, previously reported single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for bone morphogenetic protein receptor-(BMPR)-1B and growth differentiation factor ) GDF9( known to affect fertility have not been detected.
This study was conducted to assess whether any significant mutations in GDF9 were extracted from slaughtered ewe ovaries of Iranian Afshari sheep breed.
There is no consensus on effect of serum progesterone level on the day of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) injection.
Endometriosis is the presence of endometrial glands and stroma in sites other than the uterine cavity, which is associated with infertility.
Amniocentesis and chorionic villus sampling (CVS) are procedures used for prenatal genetic diagnosis.
In this study, we compare the safety and complications of mid-trimester amniocentesis and transabdominal CVS.
Drugs and toxins are the most common factors for the disease.
This article aimed to review the prognosis of rhabdomyolysis.
Earthquakes, floods, droughts, storms, mudslides, landslides, and forest wild fires are serious threats to human lives and properties.
The present study aimed to study the environmental characteristics and pathogenic traits, recapitulate experiences, and augment applications of medical reliefs in tropical regions.
Using pulmonary infection control window (PIC window) as the switch point for transferring from invasive to noninvasive MV, the time for early extubation can be more accurately judged, and therapy efficacy can be improved.
The complications of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) include acute lung injury, acute kidney injury, shock, and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS).
In recent years, how to clear inflammatory mediators has become a hot topic in critical care medicine.
This study aimed to observe the effects of CBP in MODS patients.
Blood hemoperfusion with resin adsorption can clean larger molecules that exceed the molecular weight cutoff of combined continuous veno-venous hemofiltration (CVVH).
Hence blood hemoperfusion with resin adsorption combined CVVH (HP+CVVH) has higher ability of mediator clearance, and can improve clinical outcomes in theory.
Edaravone (3-methyl-1-penyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one) is a potent free-radical scavenger and has the antioxidant ability to inhibit lipid peroxidation.
The present study aimed to determine the effect of CaMKII-ryanodine receptor pathway signaling in rabbits with left ventricular hypertrophy and triggered ventricular arrhythmia.
As emergency ultrasound use explodes around the world, it is important to realize the path its development has taken and learn from trials and tribulations of early practitioners in the field.
It has been estimated that up to one third of all emergency department (ED) visits may be "inappropriate" or non-emergent.
The objective of this study is to identify the reasons contributing to self-perceived non-emergent adult emergency department visits during primary care physician office hours of operation.
This study was undertaken to examine the current level of operations and management education within US-based Emergency Medicine Residency programs.
5-lipoxygenase protein (ALOX5AP) has been recognized as a susceptibility gene for stroke and coronary artery diseases.
This study aimed to determine whether modified shock index (MSI) is associated with mortality that is superior to heart rate, blood pressure, or the shock index (SI) in emergency patients.
Methods used to implement or prevent hypothermia typically require skin contact with blankets or pads or intravascular access with catheter devices.
The study was to evaluate the potential to induce mild therapeutic hypothermia via an esophageal route in a porcine model.
The association of genetic variation in the IRAK-1 gene with sepsis outcome has been proved.
However, few studies have addressed the impact of the IRAK-4 gene variants on sepsis risk.
This study aimed to determine whether the polymorphisms in the IRAK-4 gene are associated with susceptibility to and prognosis of severe sepsis in the Chinese Han ethnic population.
Hypothermia is associated with poor outcome in trauma patients; however, hemorrhagic shock (HS) model with anesthetized swine was different from that of clinical reality.
To identify the effects of environmental hypothermia on HS, we investigated hemodynamics and oxygen dynamics in an unanesthetized swine model of HS under simulating hypothermia environment.
The present study aimed to observe the effect of HBO on apoptosis of epithelial cells in the small intestine during different periods of I/R and to elucidate the potential mechanisms.
The study aimed to explore the knowledge of and attitude towards basic life support (BLS) among medical/paramedical professionals.
Endovascular repair of mycotic aneurysm is an alternative to open repair if the patho-anatomy is suitable.
The aortic size above and below the mycotic aneurysm may be small.
Dyspnea is one of the most common complaints facing the emergency medicine physician.
Stroke is a common presentation in geriatric patients in emergency department but rarely seen in pediatric patients.
In case of acute ischemic stroke in pediatric age group, management is different from that of adult ischemic stroke where thrombolysis is a good op.
HMGB1 is secreted into the extracellular milieu and acts as a proinfl ammatory cytokine.
In this article we reviewed briefl y the cellular immune response mediated by HMGB1 in infl ammation and sepsis.
In the recent past, propofol was temporarily removed from the emergency department (ED) for use in procedural sedation.
We sought to determine which agents replaced it in clinical practice and the impact this change had on turnaround times (TAT) for sedated patients.
Cosyntropin has been reported to be effective in the treatment of post-dural puncture headaches, but there is a lack of data on its effectiveness.
We compared the efficacy of cosyntropin with that of caffeine in the treatment of post-dural puncture headaches.
Serum uric acid level is associated with some chronic diseases and prognosis of severe infection.
This study aimed to investigate the relationship between serum uric acid (SUA) and prognosis of infection in critically ill patients.
In the management of critically ill patients, the assessment of volume responsiveness and the decision to administer a fluid bolus constitute a common dilemma for physicians.
Static indices of cardiac preload are poor predictors of volume responsiveness.
Passive leg raising (PLR) mimics an endogenous volume expansion (VE) that can be used to predict fluid responsiveness.
Acute kidney injury following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is associated with a worse outcome.
With beta-lactam drugs and immunosuppressants widely used, the infection caused by Acinetobacter baumannii (Ab) has become more and more serious with multidrug resistant Acinetobacter baumannii (MDRAb) emerging and worsening rapidly.
Compared with other patients, the incidence and multidrug resistance of MDRAb are higher in children in pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) because of immune deficiency, severe basic diseases, prolonged hospitalization and invasive operations.
The virulent factors of Escherichia coli (E.coli) play an important role in the process of pathopoiesis.
Severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) can result in intestinal mucosal barrier (IMB) dysfunction.
This study was undertaken to demonstrate the effect of IGF-I on the intestinal mucosal barrier in rats with SAP and its possible mechanisms.
Previous investigation of drug calculation skills of qualified paramedics has highlighted poor mathematical ability with no published studies having been undertaken on undergraduate paramedics.
There are three major error classifications.
Conceptual errors involve an inability to formulate an equation from information given, arithmetical errors involve an inability to operate a given equation, and finally computation errors are simple errors of addition, subtraction, division and multiplication.
The objective of this study was to determine if undergraduate paramedics at a large Australia university could accurately perform common drug calculations and basic mathematical equations normally required in the workplace.
It is associated with a high mortality rate.
Hence, it is important for emergency physicians to identify the presence of strangulation, while making the diagnosis of closed loop small bowel obstruction.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract in adults.
We treated surgically a man with acute abdomen caused by non-traumatic hemoperitoneum and diagnosed by low grade gastric GIST.
Acute chest pain represents a common presentation at emergency department.
Aortic dissection in young patients, however, is fortunately rare.
Immigrants with language barriers are at high risk of having poor access to health care services.
However, several studies have indicated that immigrants tend to use emergency departments (EDs) as their primary source of care at the expense of primary care.
In Shenzhen, the Emergency Medical Service (EMS) system has been in service since 1997.
This study aims to examine the operation of Shenzhen 120 EMS center and to identify the reasons of calling EMS.
MicroRNAs (MiRNA) are a novel class of non-coding RNAs involved in the regulation of gene expression post-transcriptionally by cleavage or translational repression of their specific target miRNAs.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that circulating miRNAs are stable and abundant in blood and aberrantly expressed under pathological conditions, including cardiovascular diseases.
The implications of circulating miRNAs in acute myocardial infarction have recently been recognized.
This review will highlight the potential role of miRNA as a novel class of biomarkers in acute myocardial infarction.
The Joint Commission accreditation manual contains standards in improving organization performance related to report and review of patient care issues causing unexpected harm.
In spite of regulations mandating reporting, it remains inconsistent, varying by provider type and hospital.
Our purpose was to determine current attitudes, knowledge, and practice of error reporting among emergency department (ED) providers.
Tension pneumothorax (TPX) is an uncommon but life-threatening condition.
It is important that this uncommon presentation, managed by needle decompression, is practised by paramedics using a range of educationally sound and realistic mannequins.
The objective of this study is to identify if the chest wall thickness (CWT) of training mannequins used for chest decompression is an anatomically accurate representation of a human chest.
Altered mental status (AMS) is a very common emergency case, but the exact etiology of many AMS patients is unknown.
The aim of this study is to provide a framework for the assessment of AMS patients.
This assessment should allow providers to better understand the etiology of mental status changes and therefore improve diagnostic skills and management.
Several risk scoures have been used in predicting acute kidney injury (AKI) of patients undergoing general or specific operations such as cardiac surgery.
This study aimed to evaluate the use of two AKI risk scores in patients who underwent non-cardiac surgery but required intensive care.
Mechanical ventilation is a double-edged sword to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) including lung injury, and systemic inflammatory response high tidal volumes are thought to increase mortality.
The effect of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) during traumatic brain injury (TBI) and whether it can modulate secondary injury has not been reported previously.
Paraquat (PQ) is an effective herbicide and is widely used in agricultural production, but PQ poisoning is frequently seen in humans with the lung as the target organ.
Currently, there are many studies on lung injury after PQ poisoning.
But the kidney as the main excretory organ after PQ poisoning is rarely studied and the mechanisms of this poisoning is not very clear.
In this study, we observed the expression of caspase-3 and livin protein in rat renal tissue after PQ poisoning as well as the therapeutic effects of ulinastatin.
Caffeinated energy drinks are widely used worldwide.
They are associated with a variety of adverse effects and are of concern to health authorities, yet there is still scarce information about their adverse effects and inadequate awareness among medical personnel.
Abdominal wall hematoma is due to trauma, coagulation disorders or anticoagulation therapy complications.
Traumatic bilateral hip dislocation is a rare condition.
A 57-year-old man had bilateral asymmetric hip dislocation with a posterior wall fracture of the left acetabulum associated with right shoulder anterior dislocation caused by falling down from a cherry tree.
Traumatic hip dislocation and anterior shoulder dislocation represent a true orthopedic emergency.
Numerous basic and clinical studies on nerve conduits for peripheral nerve injury repair were performed between 2002-2011.
We performed a bibliometric analysis of the institutions, authors, and hot topics in the field, from the Web of Science, using the key words peripheral nerve and conduit or tube.
A computer-based retrieval was performed for papers examining the distribution of cardiac autonomic nerves, using heart, autonomic nerve, sympathetic nerve, vagus nerve, nerve distribution, rhythm and atrial fibrillation as the key words.
We performed a bibliometric analysis of studies on the use of acupuncture to treat cerebral infarction published during 2002-2011, retrieved from Scopus, using the key words of acupuncture and cerebral infarction or ischemic stroke.
Compliance with methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) in China is poor.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) are objective electrophysiological indicators that can be used to assess cognitive processes in the human brain.
Psychiatric researchers in China have applied this method to study schizophrenia since the early 1980s.
Mental rotation is a spatial representation conversion capability using an imagined object and either object or self-rotation.
This capability is impaired in schizophrenia.
Prior research has determined that impairment in neurocognition and psychiatric symptoms contribute to reduced occupational and social functioning in schizophrenia.
This article summarizes the clinical manifestations of one case of clozapine-associated neuroleptic malignant syndrome and discusses its diagnosis, predisposing factors and treatment based on a literature review.
Early identification and treatment is critical to lower the mortality of clozapine-associated neuroleptic malignant syndrome.
One possible reason for the less than satisfactory long-term outcomes for schizophrenia is the lack of coordination between inpatient and community-based services.
Oxidative stress is a neurotoxic factor that may precipitate acute psychoses.
The ability to mentally rotate images is impaired in depressed patients but the electrophysiological abnormalities in the brain related to this impairment remain unclear.
Studies from other countries have associated these impairments with cognitive function, particularly executive functioning, but these findings have not been confirmed in China.
Tuberous sclerosis is a rare disorder with no specific treatment.
In some cases psychological symptoms are the initial presenting symptoms, making the differential diagnosis difficult.
We describe a patient with tuberous sclerosis who developed psychiatric symptoms and discuss the use of low-dose quetiapine to control her emotional and behavioral symptoms.
Findings from previous studies linking brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and schizophrenia are inconsistent and few studies have assessed the relationship between BDNF C270T gene polymorphisms and the clinical and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia.
We performed a bibliometric analysis of studies from 2002 to 2011 on follicle and melanocyte stem cells, and their application in neuroscience, which were retrieved from the Web of Science, using the key words follicle stem cell or melanocyte stem cell, and neural, neuro or nerve.
Sympathetic ophthalmia is a rare, bilateral, diffuse granulomatous uveitis that usually occurs after open globe injury or intraocular surgery.
To our knowledge, findings of this condition using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography have not been previously described.
Progressive retinal outer necrosis is a devastating viral necrotizing retinitis, which affects predominantly immunocompromised patients.
We report a case in which the ocular findings led to a search for an underlying immune deficiency, established as congenital purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency.
Best disease is an autosomal dominant retinal dystrophy with a variable phenotypic expression.
Clinically, it is characterized by a vitelliform lesion in the macula because of the deposition of yellow material in a dome-shaped configuration, believed to be lipofuscin that accumulates within and beneath the retinal pigment epithelium.
Best disease is occasionally complicated by the development of choroidal neovascularization (CNV), which typically occurs in the macula.
We report a case of peripapillary CNV in Best disease.
Ocular manifestations of Lyme disease are uncommon.
There has not been a documented case of serous retinal detachment and chorioretinal folds because of Lyme disease that have resolved after only antibiotic treatment.
Cutaneous hypopigmentation has been reported after steroid injection.
Sub-Tenon triamcinolone injection is often administered to control or prevent ocular inflammation.
Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis is a rare neurodegenerative disease.
The ophthalmologic findings, typically necrotizing retinitis, often precede other neurologic signs and symptoms.
Ocular findings are helpful for early diagnosis, but the findings of optical coherence tomography (OCT) images in an active phase of retinitis have never been reported.
We report unique findings of OCT images in a case of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis.
Severe hypotension resulting from anaphylactic shock may be refractory to epinephrine and impair cerebral oxygenation and metabolism contributing to anaphylactic shock morbidity and mortality.
Refractoriness to epinephrine could be corrected by nitric oxide pathway inhibitors such as methylene blue.
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in anymaterials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are regarded as two types of drugs that respectively increase and decrease the risk of peptic ulcer bleeding.
This will help determine whether or not it is important that clinicians take tissue samples rather than swabs in infected ulcers.
This study has been approved by the Sheffield NRES Committee (Ref: 11/YH/0078) and all sites have obtained local approvals prior starting recruitment.
Refeeding syndrome is a potentially life-threatening condition characterised by severe intracellular electrolyte shifts, acute circulatory fluid overload and organ failure.
The initial symptoms are non-specific but early clinical features are severely low-serum electrolyte concentrations of potassium, phosphate or magnesium.
Transcatheter aortic valve implants (TAVIs) is indicated as an alternative to surgical valve replacement for patients unfit for surgery.
No systematic review has studied survival after 2 years and limited information is available on between-study heterogeneity.
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
Heart and Stroke Foundation of Ontario.
The built environment is increasingly recognised as being associated with health outcomes.
Relationships between the built environment and health differ among age groups, especially between children and adults, but also between younger, mid-age and older adults.
Yet few address differences across life stage groups within a single population study.
Moreover, existing research mostly focuses on physical activity behaviours, with few studying objective clinical and mental health outcomes.
Findings will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented at local, national and international conferences, thus contributing to the evidence base informing the design of healthy neighbourhoods for all residents.
Of the 200 million adults worldwide who undergo noncardiac surgery each year, more than 1 million will die within 30 days.
A participant death is a serious event in a clinical trial and needs to be unambiguously and publicly reported.
Few studies have investigated the relationship between PSC and patient outcomes, considering possible confounding effects of other nurse-related organizational factors.
As the European population ages, the demand for nursing care increases.
There are no adequate solutions for this shortage yet, and recruitment of future nurses is difficult.
Therefore, retaining nurses for the profession is urgent.
The importance of the nurse's role in patient safety has been established.
Effective nurse staffing levels, nurse education levels, and a positive work environment for nurses are factors which are known to impact on patient safety outcomes.
In particular, yoga postures consist of systemic isometric contractions that are known to elicit marked increases in mean blood pressure that are not observed during dynamic exercise.
Stretching can also induce increases in blood pressure and sympathetic nerve activity in the muscles.
Two novel agents, dabigatran and rivaroxaban, recently gained market authorisation for prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) after hip and knee arthroplasty.
However, safety data of the new oral anticoagulants with a long-term use of 42 days are not available for total knee arthroplasty (TKA).
Furthermore, there are no clinical trials comparing dabigatran and/or rivaroxaban with nadroparin, which is used in most Dutch departments of orthopaedic surgery.
Throughout the world, alcohol consumption is common among adolescents.
Adolescent alcohol use and misuse have prognostic significance for several adverse long-term outcomes, including alcohol problems, alcohol dependence, school disengagement and illicit drug use.
KICk-OFF is a 5-day structured education course for 11-year-olds to 16- year-olds with T1DM.
It was developed with input from young people, parents, teachers and educationalists.
Results will be reported in peer reviewed journals and conferences.
In studies with the Fischer inbred rat, the 5-HT(1A) receptor has been implicated in this sexual dysfunction.
Whether this association with 5-HT(1A) receptors holds for other rat strains is not known.
Chronic musculoskeletal pain is a common condition that often responds poorly to treatment.
Self-management courses have been advocated as a non-drug pain management technique, although evidence for their effectiveness is equivocal.
We designed and piloted a self-management course based on evidence for effectiveness for specific course components and characteristics.
Ethics approval was given by Cambridgeshire Ethics 11/EE/046.
This trial will provide robust data on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an evidence-based, group self-management programme for chronic musculoskeletal pain.
The published outcomes will help to inform future policy and practice around such self-management courses, both nationally and internationally.
The impact of nerve sparing (NS) on urinary continence recovery after robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy (RALP) has yet to be defined.
Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitors have less upper gastrointestinal toxicity than traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
However, both COX-2 inhibitors and traditional NSAIDs may be associated with adverse cardiovascular side effects.
The overall safety balance of a strategy of celecoxib therapy versus traditional NSAID therapy is unknown.
The European Medicines Agency requested studies of the cardiovascular safety of celecoxib within Europe.
SCOT has been approved by the relevant ethics committees.
The trial results will be published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal.
Funding for this study was provided by the Health Technology Assessment programme of the National Institute for Health Research.
Instituto de Salud Carlos III (PI 04/0165) (Fondo de Investigaciones Sanitarios, Ministerio de Sanidad y Consumo, Spain), Spanish Respiratory Society (SEPAR) (Barcelona), Resmed (Bella Vista, Australia), Air Products-Carburos Metalicos (Barcelona), Respironics (Murrysville, Pennsylvania), and Breas Medical (Madrid, Spain).
Mysliwiec V; McGraw L; Pierce R; Smith P; Trapp B; Roth BJ.
Sleep disorders and associated medical comorbidities in active duty military personnel.
SLEEP 2013;36(2):167-174.
PORTABLE MONITORING FOR DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF SLEEP APNEA (HOMEPAP) URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00642486.
NIH clinical trials registry number: NCT00642486.
None.
National Cancer Institute and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
4.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
In Sweden, 20% of female patients have reported lifetime experiences of abuse in any health care setting.
Corresponding prevalence among male patients is estimated to be 8%.
Many patients report that they currently suffer from these experiences.
The SWE is the smallest effect that justifies the costs, risks and inconveniences of an intervention and is used to inform the design and interpretation of systematic reviews and randomised clinical trials.
Findings will be disseminated through conference presentations, seminars and peer-reviewed scientific journals.
ClinicalTrials.Gov #NCT00237796 (http://clinicaltrials.
gov/show/NCT00237796).
This review is an abridged version of a Cochrane Review previously published in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2010, Issue 4, Art.
No.
: MR000013 DOI: 10.1002/14651858.MR000013.pub5 (see www.thecochranelibrary.com for information).
The cost-benefit analysis framework will be provided in the form of an interactive model for industry partners, health regulators and policy makers, accreditation agencies and acute care service providers.
One hour face-to-face session, covering the same material as the intervention, delivered by the nursing subject librarian.
Several factors considered to be barriers to cancer pain management have been reported in the past.
The knowledge of cancer pain management may be a hindrance to the proper assessment and treatment of pain in cancer patients.
There is a strong body of evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of brief interventions by primary care professionals for risky drinkers.
However, implementation levels remain low because of time constraints and other factors.
Facilitated access to an alcohol reduction website offers primary care professionals a time-saving alternative to standard face-to-face intervention, but it is not known whether it is as effective.
The protocol was approved by the Isontina Independent Local Ethics Committee on 14 June 2012.
The findings of the trial will be disseminated through peer-reviewed journals, national and international conference presentations and public events involving the local administrations of the towns where the trial participants are resident.
Pharmacotherapy and cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) are consistently effective as first-line treatments for social anxiety disorders (SADs).
Nevertheless, pharmacotherapy is often the first choice in clinical practice.
Ethics approval was granted by the Institutional Review Board of Chiba University Hospital.
All participants will be required to provide written informed consent.
The trial will be implemented and reported in accordance with the recommendations of CONSORT.
Second-hand smoke (SHS) exposure is estimated to kill 600 000 people worldwide annually.
The WHO recommends that smoke-free indoor public environments are enforced through national legislation.
Such regulations have been shown to reduce SHS exposure and, consequently, respiratory and cardiovascular morbidity.
Evidence of particular health benefit in children is now emerging, including reductions in low birthweight deliveries, preterm birth and asthma exacerbations.
We aim to comprehensively assess the impact of smoke-free legislation on fetal, infant and childhood outcomes.
This can inform further development and implementation of global policy and strategies to reduce early life SHS exposure.
Ethics assessment is not required.
Effective cardiopulmonary resuscitation with appropriate airway management improves outcomes following out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA).
Historically, tracheal intubation has been accepted as the optimal form of OHCA airway management in the UK.
The Joint Royal Colleges Ambulance Liaison Committee recently concluded that newer supraglottic airway devices (SADs) are safe and effective devices for hospital procedures and that their use in OHCA should be investigated.
This study will address an identified gap in current knowledge by assessing whether it is feasible to use a cluster randomised design to compare SADs with current practice, and also to each other, during OHCA.
Approval for the study has been obtained from a National Health Service Research Ethics Committee with authority to review proposals for trials of a medical device in incapacitated adults.
The results will be made publicly available on an open access website, and we will publish the findings in appropriate journals and present them at national and international conferences relevant to the subject field.
Ensuring production capacity of efficacious vaccines for pandemic preparedness alone may not be sufficient for effective influenza control.
Community willingness to accept the vaccine is also critical.
Pune is a focus of pandemic influenza in India.
The experience of the 2009/2010 pandemic in Pune, capacity for vaccine production and experience with vaccine use provide a unique opportunity to address key questions about an effective vaccine intervention strategy for influenza control in India.
This study will examine the socioeconomic, cultural and behavioural determinants of anticipated acceptance of influenza vaccines among the urban and rural populations of Pune district.
Additionally, community ideas about seasonal influenza and its distinction from pandemic influenza will be investigated.
This protocol was approved by the ethics review committees of the Maharashtra Association of Anthropological Sciences and the WHO, and by the Ethics Commission of Basel, Switzerland.
The findings and the approach for health social science research will have implications for containment of pandemic influenza in other settings and for effective vaccine action planning for other vaccines.
This work was supported by the Dutch Cancer Society (grant no.
VU 2006-3622) and by Foundation Children Cancer Free.
None of the authors report a conflict of interest.
The study was supported by the Danish Cancer Society (award number: 96 222 54).
All authors report no conflicts of interest.
There was no funding source for this study.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
The study was funded by the Family Federation of Finland, Fertility Clinic Helsinki.
No competing interests.
This work was supported by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development for grant #R01-HDHD050329 (P.I.
None of the authors have a competing interest.
This study was supported by grant 945/12/002 from ZonMw, the Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development, The Hague, the Netherlands.
The EBBA-I study was supported by a grant from the Norwegian Cancer Society (49 258, 05087); Foundation for the Norwegian Health and Rehabilitation Organizations (59010-2000/2001/2002); Aakre Foundation (5695-2000, 5754-2002) and Health Region East.
The current analyses were completed under funding from the National Institutes of Health (K12 ES019852).
No competing interests declared.
This work was supported by grants to J. Leng from the Key Project for Clinical Faculty Foundation, Ministry of Health, China (2010).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
The authors received financial support from the European Commission (DEER, FP7-2007-212844), the Danish Agency for Science, Technology and Innovation (grant nos.
27107068 and 09-067180), Rigshospitalet (grant no.
95-103-72087).
The funding organizations played no role in the design and conduct of the study, in collection, management, analysis and interpretation of the data; or in the presentation, review or approval of the manuscript.
The authors declare that they have no competing financial interests.
Scientific Research Foundation-Flanders (FWO-Vlaanderen) and Research Council (OZR) of the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.
None of the authors declared a conflict of interest.
This research was supported by National Institutes of Health grants U54HD-034449 and P50 HD044405 (A.D.).
Priyathama Vellanki is supported in part by NIH/NIDDK Training Grant T32 DK007169.
B.V.C.
is supported by a postdoctoral fellowship from the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO).
K.V.H.
is supported by a fellowship from the Flanders' Agency for Innovation by Science and Technology (IWT-Vlaanderen), by the Research Council KU Leuven (GOA MaNet), by the Flemish Government (iMinds) and by the Belgian Federal Science Policy Office (IUAP P7/DYSCO).
T.B.
is supported by the Imperial Healthcare NHS Trust NIHR Biomedical Research Centre.
No competing interests are declared.
None.
This work was supported in part by Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (no.
20591920 to K.N.
and no.
23592407 to H.N.)
and The Uehara Memorial Foundation (to K.N.
).
The study was supported by Autism Speaks, NIMH 1K02-MH65422 and NIEHS 1R01ES019004.
There are no competing interests.
This work was supported by MOST of China National Basic Research Program (grant number: 2010CB94500 and 2012CB911200).
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
Female obesity impairs natural and assisted reproduction but there is no agreement on the specific contribution of gametes, embryos or endometrial receptivity.
None.
No external funding was obtained for this study.
There are no competing interests.
Financial support was from grant Sp721/1-3 of the German Research Foundation.
There are no competing interests to be declared.
No external funding was either sought or obtained for this study.
No specific funding was obtained for this study; it was solely funded by IVI.
None of the authors have any economic affiliation with Unisense Fertilitech A/S but IVI is a minor shareholder in Unisense Fertilitech A/S.
None.
No external funding was obtained for this study.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This study was supported by grants from the Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm City County/Karolinska Institutet (ALF), Stockholm, Sweden, Swedish Medical Research Council (K2007-54X-14212-06-3, K2010-54X-14212-09-3), Stockholm, Sweden, Leuven University Research Council (Onderzoeksraad KU Leuven), the Leuven University Hospitals Clinical Research Foundation (Klinisch onderzoeksfonds) and by the National Scientific Foundation (Fonds voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek, FWO).
The authors have no conflict of interest.
No external funds were sought for this work.
None of the authors have any competing interests to declare.
The Assistance-Publique Hpitaux de Paris provided a Contrat d'Interface and the Agence de Biomdecine provided a grant to Nathalie di Clemente.
Schering-Plough provided an FARO grant to Alice Pierre.
The authors have nothing to disclose.
This work was supported by grants from the MRC (New Investigator Award, G0601458 to C.M.B.
There are no conflicts of interest to be declared.
(see Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A41) for more insights from the authors.
(see Video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/JNPT/A38) for more insights from the authors.
A major factor that may contribute to a higher adenoma miss rate during colonoscopy is undetected lesions located behind haustral folds, flexures, or rectal valves.
The tobacco use among the youth, in both smoking and smokeless forms, is quite high in the South East Asian region.
Tobacco use is a major proven risk factor and contributes substantially to the rising epidemic of non-communicable diseases.
AOT is based on action observation, whereby new motor skills can be learnt by observing motor actions.
This process is facilitated by the Mirror Neuron System, which matches observed and performed motor actions.
Pain is the commonest reason that patients present to an emergency department (ED), but it is often not treated effectively.
Patient controlled analgesia (PCA) is used in other hospital settings but there is little evidence to support its use in emergency patients.
The study is approved by the South Central-Southampton A Research Ethics Committee (REC reference 11/SC/0151).
Data collection will be completed by August 2013, with statistical analyses starting after all final data queries are resolved.
Dissemination plans include presentations at local, national and international scientific meetings held by relevant Colleges and societies.
Publications should be ready for submission during 2014.
Our objective was to compare two modes of high-frequency ventilation, high-frequency oscillation (HFOV), and high-frequency percussive ventilation (HFPV) with conventional mechanical ventilation (CMV) in a piglet model of MAS.
In 2010, 10% of babies were born prematurely influencing national healthcare policies, economic action plans and political decisions.
Written informed consent will be obtained from parents or legal guardians at study enrolment.
The trial has been approved by the ethical committee of Macerata hospital (n22/int./CEI/27239) and it is under review by the other regional ethics committees.
To preserve sinus rhythm, ablation is undertaken in symptomatic patients.
The protocol is approved by the regional research ethics committee (number H-1-2011-135), the Danish Data Protection Agency (reg.
nr.
2007-58-0015) and follows the latest version of the Declaration of Helsinki.
The results will be published in peer-reviewed journals and may possibly impact on rehabilitation guidelines.
PhD and EdD educators in departments of surgery have and are increasingly becoming valuable colleagues.
Professional educators typically assist chairpersons and program directors by positively impacting the education, research, and service missions.
These can be highly expensive.
Here, we describe a novel and upgradable approach to constructing an affordable laparoscopic trainer.
Reliance upon fluoroscopy within urology is increasing, with urologists key in determining radiation exposure to patients, themselves, and other healthcare personnel.
However, education in occupational radiation safety is nonstandardized, often lacking.
Consequently, residents and practicing urologists risk overexposure.
We assessed occupational radiation safety attitudes and practices of training urologists.
Studies involving the formal assessment of surgical skills have often reported inferior abilities among left-handed surgical trainees (LHT).
Most surgical training curricula and assessment methods, however, are inherently geared toward right-handed trainees (RHT); potentially placing LHT at both a training and assessment disadvantage.
We evaluated the effect of a hand dominance-based curriculum for acquisition of basic suturing and knot tying skills among medical students.
Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) polymorphisms are proposed to be important factors in the presentation of neuropsychiatric symptoms in many disorders, including decreased striatum levels of dopamine D2 receptors in Wilson disease.
Long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCHAD) deficiency is an inborn error of fatty acid metabolism that affects the degradation of long chain fatty acids and causes insufficient energy production and accumulation of toxic intermediates.
The treatment consists of a diet low in fat, with supplementation of medium-chain triglycerides that bypass the metabolic block.
In addition, frequent feeds and extra carbohydrates are given during febrile illnesses to reduce lipolysis.
Hence, this diet differs from the general dietary recommendations for growing children.
Dietary management is the mainstay of effective treatment in PKU, but dietary restriction is difficult and additional treatment options are needed.
Morquio A is classically described as a skeletal dysplasia, but the impact of the abnormalities on the upper limb has not been described.
Urea cycle disorders (UCDs) result from inherited defects in the ammonia detoxification pathway, leading to episodes of hyperammonaemia and encephalopathy.
Samples from 96 admissions (79, 9 and 8 admissions for OTC, CPS and ASS deficiencies, respectively) from 14 patients fulfilled these criteria.
The diagnostic process for lysosomal storage disorders may result in findings of unknown clinical significance.
Here we report such an unexpected outcome.
Yoga improves maternal and fetal outcomes in pregnancy.
Platelet Count and Uric acid (Ua) are valuable screening measures in high-risk pregnancy.
Stress has negative effect on health and type 2 diabetes patients may be at an increased risk.
Abnormally high levels of free radicals and the simultaneous decline of antioxidant defense mechanisms can increase lipid peroxidation and insulin resistance.
HIV diagnoses acquired among Australian men working or travelling overseas including Southeast Asia are increasing.
This change within transmission dynamics means traditional approaches to prevention need to be considered in new contexts.
The significance and role of social networks in mediating sexual risk behaviours may be influential.
This paper describes the development of a qualitative protocol to investigate how social networks of Australian expatriates and long-term travellers might support interventions to reduce transmission of HIV and sexually transmitted infections.
The role of expatriate and long-term traveller networks and their potential to impact health are uncertain.
This research will provide tangible recommendations for policy and practice as the findings will be disseminated to health professionals and other stakeholders, academics and the community via local research and evaluation networks, conference presentations and online forums.
The Curtin University Human Research Ethics Committee has granted approval for this research.
Black SW; Morairty SR; Fisher SP; Chen TM; Warrier DR; Kilduff TS.
Almorexant promotes sleep and exacerbates cataplexy in a murine model of narcolepsy.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):325-336.
Machida M; Yang L; Wellman LL; Sanford LD.
Effects of stressor predictability on escape learning and sleep in mice.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):421-430.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):413-419.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):369-376.
Evans DS; Parimi N; Nievergelt CM; Blackwell T; Redline S; Ancoli-Israel S; Orwoll ES; Cummings SR; Stone KL; Tranah GJ.
Common genetic variants in ARNTL and NPAS2 and at chromosome 12p13 are associated with objectively measured sleep traits in the elderly.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):431-446.
Curie T; Mongrain V; Dorsaz S; Mang GM; Emmenegger Y; Franken P. Homeostatic and circadian contribution to EEG and molecular state variables of sleep regulation.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):311-323.
Luo C; Zhang J; Pan J.
One-year course and effects of insomnia in rural Chinese adolescents.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):377-384.
Lopez R; Jaussent I; Scholz S; Bayard S; Montplaisir J; Dauvilliers Y. Functional impairment in adult sleepwalkers: a case-control study.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):345-351.
Vanini G; Baghdoyan HA.
Extrasynaptic GABAA receptors in rat pontine reticular formation increase wakefulness.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):337-343.
Brown EC; Cheng S; McKenzie DK; Butler JE; Gandevia SC; Bilston LE.
Tongue and lateral upper airway movement with mandibular advancement.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):397-404.
Arnedt JT; Cuddihy L; Swanson LM; Pickett S; Aikens J; Chervin RD.
SLEEP 2013;36(3):353-362.
ACTRN12612000975897.
Valid instruments for assessment of individual risk of PCa have been called for.
A DNA-based genetic test has been tested retrospectively.
The clinical use of this test needs further investigation.
The primary objective is to evaluate the impact on the use of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) tests of introducing genetic PCa risk assessment in general practice.
The secondary objectives are to evaluate PCa-related patient experiences, and to explore sociocultural aspects of genetic risk assessment in patients at high PCa risk.
The intervention model might be applicable to other screening areas regarding risk of cancer with identified genetic components, for example, colon cancer.
The study is registered at the ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier: NCT01739062).
National surveys provide such data; validity depends on generalisability, but this is threatened by declining response levels.
Attempts to address bias arising from non-response are typically limited to survey weights based on sociodemographic characteristics, which do not capture differential health and related behaviours within categories.
This project aims to explore and address non-response bias in health surveys with a focus on alcohol consumption.
Ethics approval for SHeS has been given by the National Health Service (NHS) Multi-Centre Research Ethics Committee and use of linked data has been approved by the Privacy Advisory Committee to the Board of NHS National Services Scotland and Registrar General.
Funding has been granted by the MRC.
The outputs will include four or five public health and statistical methodological international journal and conference papers.
Public health.
Addiction: health policy; mental health.
Soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) is the receptor for nitric oxide (NO) and in pathophysiologic conditions where NO formation or bioavailability is impaired, erectile dysfunction (ED) occurs.
Chronic periodontitis (CP) is characterized with inflammation of the gingival tissues, which causes endothelial dysfunction in different organs.
However, most studies related to pubic hair removal are based on cross-sectional surveys and retrospective recall.
NOTES - Natural Orifice Translumenal Endoscopic Surgery; EUS - Endoscopic Ultrasound; EUSFNA - Endoscopic Ultrasound Fine Needle Aspiration.
Pectus excavatum is the most frequent anterior thoracic wall congenital malformation.
This malformation is increasing its effects with the aging process and has its peak during teenage, when the clinical symptoms become more acute and psychological effects are really important.
Across the course of time many treatment techniques have been proposed, among which conservative or surgical correction techniques.
The minimally invasive repair of pectus excavatum, "Nuss technique", developed after 1987, is the most frequently performed technique world wide.
Little is known about the role of the organisational culture in the success and sustainability of the hospital-wide interventions, and how local culture affects patient outcomes in acute hospitals.
Arthroscopic partial meniscectomy (APM) to treat degenerative meniscus injury is the most common orthopaedic procedure.
However, valid evidence of the efficacy of APM is lacking.
The protocol has been approved by the institutional review board of the Pirkanmaa Hospital District and the trial has been duly registered at ClinicalTrials.gov.
The findings of this study will be disseminated widely through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
The project was funded by the Bupa Foundation, the J P Moulton Charitable Foundation and the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
10.
See HTA programme website for further project information.
Adapting nursing interventions to suit the needs and culture of a new population (cultural adaptation) is an important early step in the process of implementation and dissemination.
Non-adherence to medications for chronic disease is a global problem and cultural adaptation of existing evidence-based interventions could be useful.
Recent research has provided a rationale for the efficacy and use of massage therapy in the management of knee osteoarthritis (OA) symptoms.
Additionally, research has also implicated the role of the quadriceps muscles in the genesis of knee OA.
Although both areas of research have demonstrated strong evidence that the muscles and massage therapy may affect knee OA symptoms, self-massage applied on the quadriceps muscle has received no attention.
In this paper, we report our experience of the clinical features of single and repeated globe rupture after penetrating keratoplasty.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the tolerability of hypofractionated helical tomotherapy (HT) in the treatment of localized prostate cancer.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
11.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
This research was supported by Cancer Research UK (Number C1226 A7920) and NIHR support to the Biomedical Research Centre at The Institute of Cancer Research and RMH.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
Research grants are funded by the Danish Health Insurance Foundation and Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme.
The funders had no influence on the data collection, analyses or conclusions of the study.
No conflict of interests to declare.
There was no direct source of funding for this research work.
N.N.D.
J.W.
This work was supported by Grant G33253 from the Medical Research Council, UK.
No external funding was sought and there are no competing interests.
This project was funded by the UK Biology and Biotechnology Research Council (BB/C007395/1) and the Medical Research Council (G 0800250).
K.E.H was in receipt of a British Fertility Society/Merck Serono studentship.
H.J.L.
is a shareholder in Novocellus Ltd, a company which seeks to devise a non-invasive biochemical test of embryo health.
No financial support.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
W.V.H.
has a Ph.D. grant and V.P.
holds a Postdoctoral Mandate by the Flemish Foundation for Scientific Research (FWO-Vlaanderen).
G.P.
is supported by a full-time stipend at Ghent University.
There are no competing interests.
Endometriosis is a chronic inflammatory disease that recruits many immune cells, especially macrophages, to the peritoneal cavity.
This work was supported by grants from National Science Council of Taiwan, Republic of China (NSC97-2314-B-006-020-MY3) to M.-H.W.
and (NSC98-2320-B-006-026-MY3) to S.-J.T., and grants from the Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taiwan, Republic of China (CMRPG891432 and CMRPG8A0531) to P.-C.C.
None of the authors have any conflicts of interest.
The German Research Foundation (DFG) to K.S., W.W. and A.P.
(STE 892/9-2), as well as to A.S. and H.C.O.
(SP721/1-3).
None.
None.
Partly funded by an unrestricted research grant by Organon BV (now MSD BV) without any role in study design, data collection and analysis, or preparation of the manuscript.
No conflict of interests to declare.
None.
W.D.
is supported by the Paediatric Oncology Centre Society for Research (KOCR), Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
J.S.E.L.
has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Ferring, Genovum, Merck-Serono, Organon, Schering Plough and Serono.
All other authors have nothing to disclose.
National Science Council, Taiwan (NSC 97-2314-B-040-018).
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
None.
No specific funding was obtained.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This study was supported, in part, by grants from US National Institutes of Health (grants R01CA124558, R01CA090899, R01CA070867; R01CA064277 and R01CA092585 and UL1 RR024975), Ingram professorship funds and Allen Foundation funds.
There are no competing interests to declare.
This study was supported by a research grant (number 150020015) from the Dutch Organisation for Health Research and Development (ZonMw) in a research programme on broadening and acceleration in multidisciplinary guideline development.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
No external funding was sought for this study and the authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
The authors have no conflicts of interest.
Research Foundation, Flanders (G.0385.08 to H.T.
), the Institute for the Agency for Innovation, Belgium (IWT/SB/111245 to E.G.
), the Flemish League against Cancer (to E.G.
), Kom op tegen kanker (G.0547.11 to H.T.)
and the Fund Willy Gepts (to HT).
E.G.
is a Postdoctoral Fellow of the FWO, Research Foundation, Flanders.
There are no conflicts of interest.
The study was funded by a grant from the Australian Research Council (ARC) and in kind and financial contributions from IVF Australia and Melbourne.
This study was funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and Genentech.
L.B.
received research grants from Astra-Zeneca, Pfizer, sanofi-aventis, Novartis and Merck for research projects and co-chairs the Astra-Zeneca Endowment Pharmaceutical Chair in Respiratory Health.
F.Z.K and A.F.
have no competing interests to declare.
This research was supported by the Foundation for Reproductive Medicine, a not-for-profit medical research foundation and intramural funds from the Center for Human Reproduction.
N.G.
N.G., A.W.
and D.H.B.
received research support, lecture fees and travel support from a variety of pharmaceutical and medical device companies, none in any way related to the issues discussed in this manuscript.
N.G.
and D.H.B.
N.G.
is the owner of the Center for Human Reproduction, where this research was performed.
M.A.Q.M.
was supported by a research grant from the Dutch Organization for Health Research and Development (ZonMw).
Appropriate ethical approvals were obtained according to local regulations.
ULIS-II will provide important information regarding treatment and outcomes from BoNT-A in real-life upper limb spasticity management.
The results will be published separately.
There are complex causal associations between mental disorders, fertility treatment, fertility treatment outcome and infertility per se.
Despite the fact that worldwide more than 400 000 ART treatment cycles are performed every year, the causal associations between mental disorders, use of medication for mental disorders and ART treatment in both sexes have only been sparsely explored.
Paediatric shock is a life-threatening condition with many possible causes and a global impact.
Current resuscitation guidelines require rapid fluid administration as a cornerstone of paediatric shock management.
However, little evidence is available to inform clinicians how to most effectively perform rapid fluid administration where this is clinically required, resulting in suboptimal knowledge translation of current resuscitation guidelines into clinical practice.
This protocol has been approved by the Hamilton Health Sciences Research Ethics Board.
While tissue hypoxia is known to play a critical role in the process of vascular injury and repair, the effect of hypercapnia on this process remains uncertain.
Refractory asthma represents an important condition, with considerable morbidity and mortality.
Tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-) is a potential target for treatment of severe asthma.
The Safety Organizing Scale (SOS) offers a reliable snapshot of nurses' engagement in unit-level safety behaviors in hospitals.
ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00558363.
National Institute on Aging.
National Institutes of Health.
In the UK, doctors' first year of medical work is also their first year of postgraduate training.
It is very important that their experience of work and training is good.
There is little awareness of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in the public arena.
However, VTE is a substantial healthcare problem, resulting in mortality, morbidity and economic cost.
Around 60% of people undergoing hip or knee replacement will suffer a deep vein thrombosis without preventative intervention.
Studies demonstrate a risk reduction for VTE of up to 70% with preventative medicine for medical and surgical conditions: cancer, orthopaedic surgery, general surgery and acutely ill medical admissions.
Results will be used to identify methods of increasing knowledge of VTE prevention and for the development of educational and patient information materials.
Ethics approval has been provided by the National Research Ethics Committee (reference: 11/H0605/5) and site-specific R&amp;D approval granted by the relevant R&amp;D National Health Service trusts.
Findings will be disseminated at healthcare and academic conferences and written for peer-reviewed publication.
NIHR RP-PG-0608-10073.
Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is a major cause of death and disability in the UK and worldwide.
Presently, timely and effective reperfusion with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) remains the most effective treatment strategy for limiting infarct size, preserving left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and improving clinical outcomes.
However, the process of reperfusion can itself induce cardiomyocyte death, known as myocardial reperfusion injury, for which there is currently no effective therapy.
Extensive preclinical evidence exists to suggest that sodium nitrite (as a source of endogenous nitric oxide) is an effective therapeutic strategy for preventing myocardial reperfusion injury.
The purpose of NITRITE-AMI is to test whether sodium nitrite reduces reperfusion injury and subsequent infarct size in patients undergoing PPCI for MI.
The study is approved by the local ethics committee (NRES Committee London West London: 11/LO/1500) and by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) (EudraCT nr.
2010-022460-12).
Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD) is a rare disease of histiocytic cells, a cause of benign cervical lymphadenopathy (LAP) and massive generalized lymph node enlargement in children and adults.
There are also some reports on involvement of other human body organs with or without LAP.
Thromboembolic events are a known complication of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) especially during disease relapse, more commonly in deep veins of extremities and lung, and rarely as Cerebral Sinovenous Thrombosis (CSVT).
Bartter's syndrome is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by deficient renal reabsorption of sodium and chloride, and hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis with hyper-reninemia and hyperaldosteronemia.
Bartter syndrome type III (BS type III), due to mutations in the CLCNKB gene, is highly variable.
The aim of our study was to describe the clinical presentation in a Chinese girl with BS type III and to explore mutations or SNPs of CLCNKB gene in her family.
Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare disease in children, characterized by intra-alveolar accumulation of large amounts of surfactant proteins, which severely reduce gas exchange.
Whole lung lavage (WLL) is the preferred technique for the treatment of severe PAP.
Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome(NBS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder with specific clinical features, characteristic chromosomal breakage and combined imunodeficiency.
The juvenile form of Huntington's disease (HD) is a rare disorder.
EF has been conceptualised as comprised of four distinct yet inter-related components: (1) attentional control, (2) cognitive flexibility, (3) goal setting and (4) information processing.
Possible relationships between EF and psychological functioning will also be investigated.
Results will be disseminated in peer reviewed publications and presentations at national and international conferences.
This study is registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ACTRN12611000263998).
There is no expression or acronym to describe the ratio of harm to benefit nor discussion of what level of harm is acceptable for what benefit.
For post TIA carotid endarterectomy the HBR is 25 (25 postoperative strokes or deaths are caused for 100 to be stroke free at 5 years); warfarin in atrial fibrillation in patients aged under 65 results in 400 intracerebral haemorrhages for every 100 saved from a thromboembolic event; fibrinolytic treatment for stroke causes 44 symptomatic intracranial haemorrhages for every 100 that have minimal disability at 3 months; aspirin in high risk patients causes 33 major bleeds for every 100 occlusive vascular events prevented; routine inpatient thromboprophylaxis causes 133 additional bleeds for every 100 pulmonary emboli prevented; breast cancer screening causes 1000 unnecessary cancer treatments for 100 cancer deaths to be prevented.
5-HT3 receptor antagonist, dexamethasone and droperidol were used for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV).
Recently, neurokinin-1 (NK1) antagonist has been used for PONV.
Rapid sequence induction (RSI) is indicated in various situations.
Succinylcholine has been the muscle relaxant of choice for RSI, and rocuronium has become an alternative medicine for patients who cannot be administered succinylcholine for various reasons.
We evaluated intubating conditions using the "modified timing principle" with rocuronium and succinylcholine.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the comparative effects of propofol infusion versus sevoflurane for maintenance of anesthesia with respect to hemodynamics, recovery characteristics, nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing percutaneous nephrolithotomy.
Shivering is a frequent event during spinal anesthesia and meperidine is a well-known effective drug for prevention and treatment of shivering.
Nefopam is a non-opiate analgesic and also known to have an anti-shivering effect.
We compared nefopam with meperidine for efficacy of prevention of shivering during spinal anesthesia.
In general, measuring the level of consciousness in neurological patients is important.
To assess the patient's mental status, the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) and the level of consciousness (drowsiness, stupor, and coma) have been used in clinical situations.
We evaluated volumetric differences of syringe brand compatibilities, and investigated the impact of false brand settings on target-controlled infusion (TCI) and their methods of correction.
WIN55212-2 is a synthetic cannabinoid agonist and selective to cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptors, which are distributed mainly in the central nervous system.
Several studies have therefore sought to describe the functional interactions between opioids and cannabinoids at the cellular and behavioral levels.
A study was reported regarding the fact that BNR17 was an inhibitor of obesity and diabetic activities in the human body through previous animal experiments.
This study was furthered to investigate the effect of BNR17, a probiotic strain isolated from human breast milk, on obese and overweight adults.
The importance of communication between patients and physicians has been proven in many previous studies.
However, recent epidemiologic studies have shown that there are between-arm differences of &lt; 5 mm Hg in simultaneous BP measurements.
Sleep disorder is a common problem in adults and affects physical and mental health.
We investigated factors associated with poor sleep quality in Korean primary care.
This research investigated the association between facial flushing after drinking and alcohol-induced biomarker abnormalities.
The purpose of this study was to examine the association of metabolic syndrome (MS) coronary heart disease (CHD) with socioeconomic status (SES).
Insulin resistance, decreased response of peripheral tissue to normal insulin levels, is known to be related to cardiometabolic diseases.
Cardiopulmonary fitness is also considered to be related to these comorbidities.
Therefore, we investigated the relationship between insulin resistance and cardiopulmonary fitness by performing a 3-minute step test in a Korean non-diabetes mellitus (DM) population.
According to the current guidelines for blood pressure monitoring, clinicians are recommended to measure blood pressure by completely exposing the upper arm.
In Ethiopia, the general population is vulnerable to unpredictable epidemics of Plasmodium falciparum malaria.
Patient discharge from the intensive care unit (ICU) to a medical or surgical hospital ward is one of the most challenging and high risk transitions of care.
Our objective is to conduct a scoping review by systematically searching the literature to identify ICU discharge planning tools and their supporting evidence-base including barriers and facilitators to their use.
Our scoping review will synthesise the literature for ICU discharge planning tools and identify the opportunities for knowledge to action and gaps in evidence where primary evidence is necessary.
Ethics approval is not required for this study.
The purpose of the research was to find out the factors which influence plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels, then to assess whether preoperative plasma NT-proBNP levels could predict postoperative outcomes of cardiac surgery.
Despite many innovations in information technology, many clinics still rely on paper-based medical records.
Critics, however, claim that they are hard to read, because of illegible handwriting, and uncomfortable to use.
Moreover, a chronological overview is not always easily possible, content can be destroyed or get lost.
There is an overall opinion that electronic medical records (EMRs) should solve these problems and improve physicians' efficiency, patients' safety and reduce the overall costs in practice.
However, to date, the evidence supporting this view is sparse.
The ethics committee of the Canton Lucerne, Switzerland, approved this study.
We presume that the implementation of the EMR software EDeR will have a positive impact on the efficiency of the doctors, which will result in an increase of consultations per day.
Move it to improve it (Mitii) is an internet-based multimodal programme comprising upper-limb and cognitive training with physical activity.
It can be accessed in the client's home at their convenience.
The proposed study aims to test the efficacy of Mitii in improving upper-limb function and motor planning.
Findings will be disseminated widely through conference presentations, seminars and peer-reviewed scientific journals.
Endoscopic transluminal treatment of pancreatic fluid collections (PFC) has been reported as an effective alternative approach to surgical treatment.
A wide, short stent with an anti-migration system has been developed.
Therapeutic anticoagulation with warfarin during cardiac ablation has been shown to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism.
Cardiac tamponade is a potentially life-threatening procedural complication requiring emergent reversal of anticoagulation and pericardiocentesis.
Dabigatran is superior to warfarin in preventing stroke and systemic embolism in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, but has not been evaluated for use during cardiac ablation.
Dabigatran is without a known reversal agent and, should tamponade occur during ablation, it is unclear what reversal strategy could be used to establish hemostasis.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
This research was supported by the CSG, Centre for Society and Life Sciences (project number: 70.1.074).
The authors declare no conflict of interest.
National Institutes of Health (NIH) Oncofertility Consortium UL1 RR024926 (1RL1-HD058293, HD058295, PL1 EB008542), the Eunice Kennedy Shriver NICHD/NIH (U54 HD018185) and ONPRC 8P51OD011092-53.
G.M.F.
works for the company that makes the polymers used in the current study.
Establishment and progression of endometriosis is crucially dependent on angiogenesis.
Resveratrol is a pleiotropic agent, which dose-dependently suppresses the development of new blood vessels.
This work was supported by a grant of the 'Freunde des Universittsklinikums des Saarlandes'.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
Studies using retrospective data on TTP have reported a short-term delay in the return of fertility after OC use.
However, little is known about the long-term OC use and TTP.
This study was supported by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (R21050264) and the Danish Medical Research Council (271-07-0338).
The authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest.
This study was supported by grants from FONCYT (PICT 01095, S.A.G., M.J.M) and SECyT UNR (PIDBIO238, S.A.G).
The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
This study was supported by a research grant by the Institute for the Promotion of Innovation by Science and Technology in Flanders, Project number IWT 070719.
This study was supported by The National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (Salary support #490970, #490995).
The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.
The authors declare that no competing interests exist.
None of the authors have a conflict of interest.
No conflicts of interest to declare.
ICMART receives financial support from ASRM, ESHRE, FSA, Japan Society for Reproductive Medicine, REDLARA, MEFS and SART.
National Basic Research Program of China and Ph.D. Programs Foundation of Ministry of Education of China.
None.
This study was supported by a grant, CTI Medtech Project Number: 9707.1 PFLS-L, Swiss Confederation.
No competing interests are declared.
This research was supported by funds obtained via the Clinical Research Fund of the University Hospitals Leuven, Belgium, via the Ferring Chair in Reproductive Medicine and Surgery, and the Serono Chair in Reproductive Medicine granted to the Leuven University Fertility Center.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
No competing interests.
This study was supported by the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (Fellowship support #550905, #611827) and project grants by Monash IVF, Australia.
There are no conflicts of interest to be declared.
No conflict of interest exists.
This study was supported by a grant of the Korean Health Technology R&amp;D Project, Ministry of Health &amp; Welfare, Republic of Korea (A100624).
No external funding was obtained for this study.
There was no competing interest.
The study (on which this secondary data-analysis was based) was supported by grant 945/12/002 from ZonMW, the Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development, The Hague, the Netherlands.
This work was supported by the Flemish foundation of Scientific Research (FWO-Vlaanderen) (aspirant clinical research mandate to F.V.M., fundamental clinical research mandate to P.D.S.
); and Ghent University grant (KAN-BOF E/01321/01 to B.H.).
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
PGD of monogenic diseases is conventionally performed on 6- to 8-cell embryos with fresh transfer.
This study is financially supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan (grants NSC 96-2628-B-002-063-MY3, NSC 98-2314-B-002-088-MY3 and 98-FTN13).
No competing interests are declared.
This study received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial or not-for-profit sectors and the authors declare no competing interests.
The small numbers available for study mean that only common problems can be excluded.
No external funding was obtained for the present study.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
This study was funded by Cornell University and fellowship awards from the Saskatchewan Health Research Foundation and Canadian Institutes of Health Research.
The authors have no conflict of interests to disclose.
None of the authors have any competing interest to declare.
PURPOSEBACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to investigate if the risk of injury declines with increasing weekly running volume before a marathon race.
Agonist to antagonist strength data is commonly analyzed due to its association with injury and performance.
The purpose of this study was to examine the agonist to antagonist ratio of upper body strength using two simple field tests (timed push up/timed modified pull up) in recreationally active adults and to establish the basis for reference standards.
Lisfranc injuries are a challenging diagnosis for the sports physical therapist because of the lack of data on how to rehabilitate them properly.
To date, the available rehabilitation literature has focused on the mechanism of injury and the conservative management of this injury.
This case describes a high school athlete whose primary sport was football, but was injured during wrestling.
He suffered a Lisfranc injury and subsequently underwent surgical fixation.
The purpose of this case report is to focus on the exercise, functional progression, and return to sport criteria utilized after operative treatment of a Lisfranc ligament injury.
However, more work is needed to provide further evidence in support of this approach.
Future investigations of the link between training patterns and injury development should be designed as large-scale prospective studies using objective methods to quantify training patterns.
This clinical commentary highlights the role of the sports physical therapist and current evidence related to the preparticipation physical examination process.
Data sources were limited to include professional positions and peer reviewed publications from 1988 through January 2013.
Preparticipation physicals should be useful, comprehensive, and cost effective for the athlete and the health care team.
Additional research is indicated in many of the areas of the PPE.
The SPT is a valuable member of the health care team and can be a primary facilitator of the PPE in concert with the physician, athletic trainer, athletic organization administrators, and others.
Controversy continues over the extent of the cardiac screening component as well as other sport or athlete specific components.
Posterior internal impingement (PII) of the glenohumeral joint is a common cause of shoulder complex pain in the overhead athlete.
This impingement is very different from standard outlet impingement seen in shoulder patients.
Internal impingement is characterized by posterior shoulder pain when the athlete places the humerus in extreme external rotation and abduction as in the cocking phase of pitching or throwing.
Impingement in this position occurs between the supraspinatus and or infraspinatus and the glenoid rim.
Understanding regarding this pathology continues to evolve.
This current concepts review presents the current thinking regarding pathophysiology, evaluation, and treatment of this condition.
This athlete had multiple surgical interventions over a three-year period.
The imaging modalities provided partial elucidation (at best) of the true picture of the pathology.
This case report outlines the decision making process utilized to provide individualized care to a young throwing athlete with bilateral glenohumeral joint instability, recurrent dislocations, and resultant glenoid bone loss.
The ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) of the elbow, in particular, must resist large valgus forces during the throwing motion.
An acute UCL sprain requires the sports medicine professional on the sidelines to thoroughly assess the injury and reach a return-to-play decision in a timely manner.
A sports medicine professional who makes an accurate diagnosis, reaches a correct return-to-play decision, and initiates early treatment gives the athlete the best chance for a rapid, successful return to their sport.
In this study, 20 physicochemical and 3 microbial parameters were measured during warm (April to September) and cold months (October to march).
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
15.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Developmental plasticity related to early life exposures leading to disease programming in offspring is a theory with substantial theoretical and empirical support.
Prenatal stress exposure has been linked to neurological outcomes, such as temperament, behavioural problems, cognitive function and affective disorders.
If exposure modifies risk-seeking behaviour, perceived danger and reaction time, it is also expected to modify injury risk.
Centor criteria (fever &gt;38.5C, swollen, tender anterior cervical lymph nodes, tonsillar exudate and absence of cough) are an algorithm to assess the probability of group A  haemolytic Streptococcus (GABHS) as the origin of sore throat, developed for adults.
This trial (NCT00734630) was funded by Forest Laboratories, Inc.
The cavernous nerve (CN) is commonly injured during prostatectomy, resulting in erectile dysfunction (ED).
We have shown in previous studies that sonic hedgehog (SHH) is critical for CN regeneration and improves erectile function after crush injury.
Diabetes is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
The study has been approved by the Danish Medicines Agency, the Scientific-Ethical Committee of the Capital Region of Denmark and the Danish Data Protection Agency.
An external monitoring committee (The Good Clinical Practice Unit at Copenhagen University Hospitals) will oversee the study.
In a context of constrained resources, the efficacy of interventions is a pivotal aim of healthcare systems worldwide.
Efficacy of healthcare interventions is highly compromised if clinical reasoning (CR), the process that practitioners use to plan, direct, perform and reflect on client care, is not optimal.
The CR process of health professionals is influenced by the institutional dimension (ie, legal, regulatory, administrative and organisational aspects) of their societal and practice contexts.
Emergency departments are important safety nets for people who live in rural areas.
Moreover, a serious problem in access to healthcare services has emerged in these regions.
The challenges of providing access to quality rural emergency care include recruitment and retention issues, lack of advanced imagery technology, lack of specialist support and the heavy reliance on ambulance transport over great distances.
The Quebec Ministry of Health and Social Services published a new version of the Emergency Department Management Guide, a document designed to improve the emergency department management and to humanise emergency department care and services.
In particular, the Guide recommends solutions to problems that plague rural emergency departments.
Unfortunately, no studies have evaluated the implementation of the proposed recommendations.
This protocol has been approved by the CSSS Alphonse-Desjardins research ethics committee (Project MP-HDL-1213-011).
The results will be published in peer-reviewed scientific journals and presented at one or more scientific conferences.
This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
18.
See the Health Technology Assessment programme website for further project information.
Studies on patient involvement show that physicians make few attempts to involve their patients who ask few questions if not facilitated.
Different methods to encourage the active participation during oncological consultation have been described; however, similar studies in Italy are lacking.
The aims of the present study are to (1) assess the effects of a preconsultation intervention to increase the involvement of breast cancer patients during the consultation, and (2) explore the role of the attending companions in the information exchange during consultation.
The study was approved by the local Ethics Committee of the Hospital Trust of Verona.
Study findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
A frequently proposed, but under-researched hypothesis is that ethnic density benefits mental health through increasing social interactions.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01230580.
National Institute on Drug Abuse.
Gilead Sciences.
International Development Research Centre.
Funded by the National Health and Medical Research CouncilTrial registration:Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (No ACTRN12611000221954).
However, there are few reports about its long-term efficacy, although medications for diabetes need to be effective over the long term.
Significant health issues and service delivery costs are associated with post-stroke pneumonia related to dysphagia.
There is no consensus on the optimal treatment of multinodular goiter (MNG), but in the past few years, the use of radioiodine has increased.
After the implementation of KT interventions, their impact on relevant outcomes should be monitored.
Our dissemination plan includes publications, presentations, website posting and a stakeholder meeting.
76 with primary insomnia and 78 non-complaining normal sleepers.
Obesity is a growing health problem in Europe and it causes many diseases.
Many weight-reducing methods are reported in medical literature, but none of them proved to be effective in maintaining the results achieved over time.
Self-empowerment can be an important innovative method, but an effectiveness study is necessary.
In order to standardise the procedures for a randomised controlled study, a pilot study will be run to observe, measure and evaluate the effects of a period of self-empowerment group treatment on overweight/obese patients.
This protocol was approved by the local Ethics Committee of Udine in March 2012.
The findings of the trial will be disseminated through peer-reviewed journals, national and international conference presentations and public events involving the local administrations of the towns where the trial participants are resident.
Prolonged hCG exposure down-regulates endometrial LH-CG receptor (LHCGR) expression in a baboon model.
HCG exposure during the proliferative phase of oocyte-donation cycles and frozen embryo transfer cycles is associated with a lower pregnancy rate.
The extreme variability of anatomic structures involved in this syndrome (both uterus, cervico-vaginal and renal anomalies) is well known, even if a complete and uniform analysis of all its heterogeneous presentations in a large series is lacking.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
High-myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity has been proposed as a trigger of disease pathogenesis in familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) on the basis of in vitro and transgenic mice studies.
National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia.
Commonwealth Fund and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
Canadian Institutes of Health Research.
Self-care skills for persons living with HIV (PLWH) are needed to better cope with the common symptoms and emotional challenges of living with this chronic illness.
Vaginal atrophy results from a decrease in circulating estrogen and is experienced by approximately 50% of postmenopausal women.
Nonhormonal over-the-counter treatments may provide temporary symptom relief, but the condition is progressive, and hormonal treatment may be warranted.
Phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitor treatment for erectile dysfunction (ED) is frequently discontinued; adherence may vary depending on the initial regimen.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection can present clinically as genital warts (GWs) in both males and females.
Much less is known about the psychosexual consequences of GW, and the studies on patients in this group are still quite limited.
Activated RhoA/Rho kinase (ROCK) has been implicated in diabetes-induced erectile dysfunction.
Earlier studies have demonstrated involvement of ROCK pathway in the activation of arginase in endothelial cells.
However, signaling pathways activated by ROCK in the penis remain unclear.
Atrophic vaginitis is a common occurrence, particularly among postmenopausal women; however, few seek or receive treatment.
One therapeutic solution is topically applied products.
Estrogen-based treatments have been shown to be effective; however, many patients are reluctant to use such formulations due to health concerns, hence the need to assess the efficacy of acceptable alternatives.
The goal of this study was to determine which solution is most effective at dissolving in vitro clots made using a veterinary canned critical care diet.
Blood typing for the presence of Dog Erythrocyte Antigen (DEA) 1.1 is recommended in all donor and recipient dogs prior to transfusion of blood products.
The objective of this study was to determine if a point-of-care DEA 1.1 blood typing cartridge could be used in place of the gel column typing method.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the validity of a novel, computer-based, interactive, cognitive simulator for training surgeons to perform pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND).
In an integrated method of education, medical students are introduced to radiology in their preclinical years.
Central line-associated bloodstream infections (CLABs) have long been associated with excess lengths of stay, increased hospital costs and mortality attributable to them.
However, the impact of the bundle strategy has not been systematically analyzed in the adult intensive care unit (ICU) setting in developing countries, such as Turkey.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
22.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Electrocardiographic early repolarization (ER) occurring in &lt;5% of general/atherosclerotic populations, is a marker of sudden cardiac death (SCD).
We aimed to determine the prevalence, contributing factors, and relationship of ER to all-cause mortality and progression to dialysis in CKD patients.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) accounts for 60-80% of cases of dementia and causes significant morbidity in patients and carers, and expense for health and social services.
Motion palpators usually rate the movement of each spinal level palpated, and their reliability is assessed based upon discrete paired observations.
We hypothesized that asking motion palpators to identify the most fixated cervical spinal level to allow calculating reliability at the group level might be a useful alternative approach.
2B.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01164683.
J Clin Sleep Med 2013;9(6):543-550.
Refractory glaucoma was defined as previously failed conventional glaucoma surgery and an uncontrolled intraocular pressure (IOP) of more than 21 mm Hg despite treatment with three topical and/or oral therapy.
Studies mainly in the western population have compared central corneal thickness in primary open angle glaucoma and normal individuals have found variable results.
Prenatal physical activity has been increasingly recommended in recent years as the fundamental condition of physiological pregnancy and birth by health promoting organizations throughout the world.
In mechanically ventilated patients under mechanical ventilation in the ICU, ventilatory mode or settings may influence sleep quality.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the direct impact of mechanical ventilation per se on sleep quantity and quality in patients who were able to tolerate separation from mechanical ventilation over prolonged periods.
Chordomas of the skull base are rare locally aggressive neoplasms with a predilection for encapsulating critical neurovascular structures, bony destruction and irregular growth patterns, and from which patients succumb to recurrence and treatment failures.
Despite the development of microsurgery and cranial base techniques, the surgical management of Foramen Magnum Meningiomas (FMM) continues to be a technical challenge to neurosurgeons.
Controversy concerning the utility of systematic condyle drilling for approaching FMM has been raised.
Our aim was to describe the surgical technique, analyze its safety, and the postoperative outcome in 12 consecutive FMM patients.
Thymomas are typically benign tumors of thymic epithelium.
Metastases to distal sites, particularly intracranial locations, are extremely rare.
Herein, we present the third case of thymoma and the second invasive thymoma to metastasize to the cavernous sinus, adjacent to the pituitary.
The surgical management of cerebral metastases to the eloquent cortex is a controversial topic.
However, there is evidence in the literature that radiation therapy carries significant risk of complication.
We present a series of patients who were symptomatic from a precentral gyrus metastasis and underwent surgical excision.
Deuk Laser Disc Repair() is a new full-endoscopic surgical procedure to repair symptomatic cervical disc disease.
Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors (IMTs) of the central nervous system (CNS) are rare entities with diverse histopathological features and varying propensities to recur.
Multiple meningiomas represents a clinical entity distinct from solitary meningiomas and can be sporadic, radiation-induced, associated with neurofibromatosis, or exhibit other familial inheritance.
The manufacturer of rhBMP-2 products (Medtronic; Minneapolis, MN) provided complete individual participant data and internal reports for all its studies of rhMBP-2 in spinal fusion.
We identified publications and conference abstracts through comprehensive literature searches.
We compared outcomes provided in the individual participant data against outcomes reported in publications.
HIV/AIDS-related stigma affects the access and utilisation of health services.
Although HIV/AIDS-related stigma in the health services has been studied, little work has attended to the relationship between professional development and stigmatising attitudes.
We have received ethical approval from the Monash MBBS executive committee as well as the Monash University Human Research Ethics Committee.
Only the principal investigator and the researcher will have access to the filing cabinet.
Dry needling (DN) is an effective method for the treatment of myofascial trigger points (MTrPs).
It is generally found that self-reported BMI understates true or measured BMI and accordingly revised obesity thresholds have been suggested.
Cannabis use and dependence is a serious health and criminal justice issue among incarcerated populations internationally.
Upon abrupt, enforced cessation of cannabis, prisoners may suffer irritability and anger that can lead to threatening behaviour, intimidation, violence, sleep disturbances and self-harm.
Cannabis withdrawal syndrome, proposed for inclusion in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in 2013, has not been examined in Indigenous populations.
The project has been approved by the James Cook University Human Research Ethics Committee (approval number H4651).The results will be reported via peer reviewed publications, conference, seminar presentations and on-line media for national and international dissemination.
This paper describes a planned process evaluation of the Use of a Multidrug Pill In Reducing Cardiovascular Events (UMPIRE) trial, one of several randomised clinical trials taking place globally to assess the potential of cardiovascular drugs as a fixed-dose combination (polypill) in cardiovascular disease prevention.
A fixed-dose combination may be a promising strategy for promoting adherence to medication; alleviating pill burden through simplifying regimens and reducing cost.
The study has received ethical approval for all sites in the UK and India where trial participant interviews will be undertaken.
Mobile phone text messaging is emerging as an important tool in the care of people living with HIV; however, reports diverge on its efficacy in improving adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART), and little is known about which patient groups may benefit most from phone-based adherence interventions.
Ethical approval was obtained for the individual studies.
This individual patient data meta-analysis may provide important insights into the effects of text messaging on ART adherence in different subpopulations, with important implications for programme implementation involving such interventions and future research.
Outcome reporting bias (ORB) in randomised trials has been identified as a threat to the validity of systematic reviews.
Previous work highlighting this problem is limited to considering a single primary review outcome.
The aim of this study was to assess ORB across all efficacy outcomes in the Cochrane systematic reviews of cystic fibrosis.
Recently, the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology developed new criteria to define poor ovarian response, the so-called Bologna criteria.
Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions and is impacting children's health globally.
In adults, obesity is associated with chronic low-grade inflammation that leads to insulin resistance, which is one of the important mechanisms through which dysregulation of metabolism occurs.
There is limited information available about the contribution of inflammation to metabolic health in obese children, and how individual and lifestyle factors impact this risk.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the mechanisms that contribute to inflammation in obese survivors of childhood brain tumours.
This study has received ethics approval from the institutional review board.
Once completed, we will publish this work in peer-reviewed journals and share the findings in presentations and posters in meetings.
The usual models of healthcare utilisation, such as Rosenstock's Health Belief Model and Andersen's Behavioural Model, cannot explain these differences adequately.
Organisational factors of the healthcare system, such as gatekeeping, do not explain the magnitude of the differences.
Our hypothesis is that patients' subjective concepts about primary healthcare utilisation play a major role in explaining different healthcare utilisation behaviour in different countries.
Hence, the aim of this study is to explore these subjective concepts comparatively, between Germany and Norway.
The study adheres to the Declaration of Helsinki.
All interviewees will sign informed consent forms and all patients will be observed during consultation.
Strict rules for data security will apply.
Developed theory and policy implications are going to be disseminated by a workshop, presentations for experts and laypersons and publications.
This study aims to understand how patients and carers recover or maintain psychological well-being by exploring the strategies employed to self-manage stress and uncertainty.
The research team will draw on their considerable experience to ensure that the study is sensitive to a patient and carer group, which may be considered vulnerable but still values being able to contribute its views.
Public and patient involvement (PPI) is integral to the design and is evidenced by: a research advisory group incorporating patient and carers, prestudy consultations with the PPI group at one of the study sites and a user as the named applicant.
The study team will use multiple methods to disseminate the findings to clinical, policy and academic audiences.
A key element will be engaging health professionals in patient and carer ideas for promoting self-management of psychological well-being.
The study has ethical approval from the North West Research Ethics Committee and the appropriate NHS governance clearance.
The study has been approved by all relevant research ethics boards.
Written consent will be obtained from all participants who will be able to withdraw at any time.
We hypothesise that an accelerated ageing process, set in motion by the poor prenatal environment, underlies these findings.
All participants give written informed consent.
Study findings will be widely disseminated to the scientific public as well as to the medical society and general public.
Interventions to improve retention in care after HIV diagnosis are necessary to optimise the timely initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) and HIV/AIDS control outcomes.
Widespread mobile phone use presents new opportunities to engage patients in care.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the WelTel intervention is an effective and cost-effective method of improving retention in care in the first year of care following HIV diagnosis.
This trial will test the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the WelTel intervention to engage patients during the first year of HIV care.
Mobile phone ownership and use are growing fastest in sub-Saharan Africa, and there is evidence that mobile phone text messages can be used successfully to significantly improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy and reduce treatment interruptions.
However, the effects of many mobilehealth interventions are often reduced by human resource shortages within health facilities.
Also, research projects generating evidence for health interventions in developing countries are most often conducted using external funding sources, with limited sustainability and adoption by local governments following completion of the projects.
Strong community participation driven by active outreach programmes and mobilisation of community resources are the key to successful adoption and long-term sustainability of effective interventions.
Our aim was to develop a framework for community ownership of a text messaging programme to improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy; improve communication between patients and doctors and act as a reminder for appointments.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
25.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
There have been many reports of in vitro analysis of inflammatory mechanism and comorbidities in gout.
However, the associations of immune response cells and comorbidities of gout have not been well documented.
Our studies aimed to examine the immune cell types and quantity in gout tissues, and to define the association of individual cell type with comorbidities.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
26.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Problem gambling is a serious public health concern at an international level where population prevalence rates average 2% or more and occurs more frequently in younger populations.
The most empirically established treatments until now are combinations of cognitive and behavioural techniques labelled cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT).
However, there is a paucity of high quality evidence for the comparative efficacy of core CBT interventions in treating problem gamblers.
This study aims to isolate and compare cognitive and behavioural (exposure-based) techniques to determine their relative efficacy.
The study was approved by the Southern Adelaide Health Service/Flinders University Human Research Ethics Committee.
Study findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
Obesity and inactivity are associated with erectile dysfunction and hypogonadism.
Coma is a state of profound unresponsiveness that can occur as a serious perioperative complication.
Cocaine is often used topically to provide the profound vasoconstriction required for nasal surgery; however, it has been associated with intraoperative cardiac adverse effects.
We compared cocaine with phenylephrine as an alternative to ascertain their relative efficacy as vasoconstrictors in nasal septoplasty.
Literature suggests glottic view is better with straight blades while tracheal intubation is easier with curved blades.
Ineffective face mask seal is the most common cause for suboptimal pre-oxygenation.
Room air entrainment can be more with vital capacity (VC) breaths when the mask is not a tight fit.
Data were analysed using SPSS statistical software, version 16.
Friedman's two-way analysis of variance by ranks was used for non-parametric data.
Different additives have been used to prolong brachial plexus block.
Mood stabilizers are drugs used to steady/balance the mood, and are also used to manage symptoms of aggression and impulsivity.
There is disparity in prescription pattern across the globe.
There is a growing concern about whether this is excessive and, if so, whether it amounts to an addiction.
To confirm this observation this pilot study was planned.
Neuropsychiatric impairments play a significant role throughout the course of cognitive decline.
There has been insufficient and contradictory research to date on the impacts of caring for a child with cleft lip/palate.
Ocular problems are common in mentally retarded children.
Due to population growth these problems are increasing.
Prevalence rate is variable from region to region.
Data on ocular problems in mentally retarded school children is lacking in this region.
Alcohol dependence can lead to autonomic neuropathy resulting in increased cardiac morbidity and mortality.
This has previously been evaluated using heart-rate variability.
The uniqueness of mindset of an individual makes psychiatric practice interesting, sensitive, and at times subjective.
A lot of mental work needs to be put in by the practitioner to consistently adhere to medical ethics and professional approach for taking key decisions despite of contradictory external forces from within and without.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any material discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Glycoproteins are involved in a diverse range of biochemical and biological processes.
To this end, the serum glycome has been proposed as a potential source of biomarkers for different types of cancers.High-throughput hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) technology for glycan analysis allows for the detailed quantification of the glycan content in human serum.
Compositional data are subject to a constant-sum constraint, which restricts the sample space to a simplex.
Proposed here is a methodology for feature selection in compositional data.
The principal objective is to provide a template for the analysis of glycan chromatography data that may be used to identify potential glycan biomarkers.
Published cluster-randomised trials where the unit of randomisation is a part or the whole of a residential facility for older people, without language or year of publication restrictions.
(1) the cases of 'fatty liver' and controls should be followed up in the long term to identify features that predict development of hepatosteatosis and then cirrhosis; (2) the acceptability of replacing the traditional six- to eight-analyte LFT panel with a drop down menu including the ALT/ALP combination should be evaluated.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
The 5-year survival is 10% and a significant part of the ongoing research aims to increase survival through surgical and oncological treatments.
According to the Research Ethics Committee, approval is not needed for phase I as it is a non-intervention part of the study.
Ethical approval of phase II will be sought at the time where the content of the intervention programme has been developed.
Dissemination will occur through presentation and findings will be published in peer-reviewed journals.
Portal vein thrombosis (PVT) increases the risk of variceal rebleeding in liver cirrhosis.
This study was approved by the ethics committee of Xijing hospital (No.
20110224-5), and was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01326949).
All participants give written informed consent.
But a small sample size potentially limits the generalisation of our conclusions.
Most who completed the EPA assessment (10/12, 83.8 %, PGY-1s; 9/11, 83.3 %, attendings) agreed it facilitated useful feedback discussions.
This study received no outside funding and none of the authors has any conflict of interest.
The study was funded in part by the A+ trust of the Auckland District Health Board.
No commercial funding was received.
The study was funded by the FNRS (National Funds for Scientific Research).
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Non-human primates have already been used as an animal model to test vitrification protocols for human ovarian tissue cryopreservation.
This study was supported by grants from the Fonds National de la Recherche Scientifique de Belgique (grant Tlvie No.
None of the authors has any competing interests to declare.
PCOS is an endocrine-metabolic disorders closely associated with insulin resistance.
In particular, the insulin signaling pathway is impaired in endometria from these patients and the concentration of GLUT4, as well as the molecules involved in its translocation to the cell surface, is decreased.
However, there are limited data about the mechanisms that regulate the GLUT4 expression in the endometria and the effect of metformin on them.
This work was supported by Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Cientfico y Tecnolgico (grant number 1095127 to M.V.).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
Self-funded; no conflicts of interest.
This study was funded by the Research Fund of the Uludag University School of Medicine.
The authors have no conflict of interest associated with this study.
The study was supported by the BioMedicine Agency, the Committee of the League against Cancer, the Besanon University Hospital, DGOS/INSERM/INCa and the regional Council of Franche-Comt.
There were no conflicts of interest to declare.
European Union Seventh Framework Program (Environment), 'Developmental Effects of Environment on Reproductive Health' (DEER) grant 212844.
Grant P30 DK046200 and Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Award T32 DK007703-16 from the National Institutes of Health.
None of the authors has any conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was supported by the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), the Institut National de la Sant et de la Recherche Mdicale (INSERM) (Grant Avenir), the Ministre de l'Education Nationale, de l'Enseignement Suprieur et de la Recherche, the Universit de Strasbourg, the Association Franaise contre les Myopathies (AFM) and the Fondation pour la Recherche Mdicale (FRM) and Hpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg.The authors have nothing to disclose.
It has been reported that the presence of SER in the cytoplasm of oocytes has a negative impact on embryo development, and is associated with a decreased clinical outcome and an increased risk of congenital anomalies.
Therefore, it has been recommended that embryos derived from SER-positive oocytes should not be transferred.
No external funding was either sought or obtained for this study and there are no potential competing interests.
This work was funded by FONDECYT 11100443, PBCT-PSD51 (IDIMI) and FONDAP 15010006.
None of the authors have any conflicts of interest to declare.
.L.
has, within the last 3 years, received honoraria for speeches in pharmacoepidemiological issues and has been expert witness in a legal US case in 2011-2012.
None of the other authors have any conflicts of interest.
The authors declare no competing interests.
This work was supported by Merck Serono, the Netherlands.
No competing interests declared.
This study was supported by the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection (research grant-7-2-7) and by the Environment and Health Fund (PhD Fellowship Program).
There are no competing interests.
Selectivity and potency of BAY 1002670 have only been determined in vitro and in animal models so far.
The studies took place at Bayer Pharma AG.
All authors are employees of Bayer Pharma AG.
No external funding declared.
No external finance was involved in this study.
B.C.J.M.F.
has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order); Andromed, Ardana, Ferring, Genovum, Merck Serono, MSD, Organon, Pantharei Bioscience, PregLem, Schering, Schering Plough, Serono and Wyeth.
A.J.G.
has received fees from Abbott, Bayer Schering and IBSA.
T.W.H.
has received fees from Merck, Sharpe &amp; Dohme, GlaxoSmithKline, NovoNordisk and Eli Lilly.
The authors declare complete independence from funders.
This study was funded by the Instituto de Medicina Integral Prof Fernando Figueira.
None.
No funding, no conflict of interest.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
This work was done under the auspices of the Ctedra d'Investigaci en Obstetrcia i Ginecologia of the Universitat Autnoma de Barcelona.
This work was supported by Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme (MSD), The Netherlands.
There are no competing interests.
The authors do not have any competing interests to declare.
This work was supported by a hospital grant (Projet Hospitalier Recherche Clinique, CHU Clermont Ferrand, France).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
None.
L.J.M.
was funded by an Australian Research Council Future Fellowship (FT100100581), S.Z.
was funded by a Heart Foundation Career Development Fellowship (ID CR10S5330) and H.J.T.
was funded by an NHMRC fellowship (ID 545888).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
Clinical trials on Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) should be registered in a publicly accessible international trial register and report on all outcomes.
We systematically assessed and evaluated TCM trials in registries with their subsequent publications.
A reduction in salt intake is one of the most cost-effective measures to curb the rapidly growing disease burden attributed to blood pressure and cardiovascular disease in the Chinese population.
A lower salt diet starting from childhood has the potential to prevent the development of such conditions.
The School-EduSalt (School-based Education Programme to Reduce Salt) study aims to determine whether an education programme targeted at school children can lower salt intake in children and their families.
The study has been approved by The Queen Mary Research Ethics Committee (QMREC2012/81) and Peking University Health Science Centre IRB (IRB00001052-12072).
Study findings will be disseminated widely through conference presentations and peer-reviewed publications.
Exposure to altitudes &gt;2500 m can result in acute mountain sickness (AMS), a mild and usually self-limiting condition.
Research has attempted to identify factors associated with developing AMS without controlling important factors related to the ascent or collecting a comprehensive set of variables.
Ethical approval has been obtained from Scotland A Research Ethics Committee (MREC 11/AL/0350), Southern Health Human Research Ethics Committee B (HREC 11180B) and the Mercy Health Human Research Ethics Committee (R12/25).
Data will be presented at international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals.
Healthcare facility construction is increasing because of population demand and the need to replace ageing infrastructure.
Research suggests that there may be a relationship between healthcare environment and patient care.
To date, most evaluations of new healthcare facilities are derived from techniques used in other industries and focus on physical, financial and architectural performance.
However, few studies have evaluated the impact of healthcare facility design on processes and outcomes of patient care.
The framework will complement existing building performance evaluation techniques and help healthcare administrators plan new ICU facilities.
Exogenous inhaled hyaluronan (HA) can exert a protective effect against injury and beneficial effects of HA have been shown in experimental models of chronic respiratory diseases.
Center for Science in the Public Interest staff have monitored sodium levels in selected processed foods and fast-food restaurant foods for many years.
NCT 01143584.
Syringoma of the penis is rare.
Heart failure can be complicated by a variety of comorbidities including sleep breathing disorder (SBD).
Coping skills training interventions have been found to be efficacious in helping both patients and their partners manage the physical and emotional challenges they face following a cancer diagnosis.
However, many of these interventions are costly and not sustainable.
To overcome these issues, a self-directed format is increasingly used.
The efficacy of self-directed interventions for patients has been supported; however, no study has reported on the outcomes for their partners.
This study has been approved by the relevant local area health and University ethics committees.
Study findings will be disseminated not only through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations but also through educational outreach visits, publication of lay research summaries in consumer newsletters and publications targeting clinicians.
It has never been tested in a randomised clinical trial whether electronic self-monitoring improves outcomes in bipolar disorder.
We are conducting a trial testing the effect of using a Smartphone for self-monitoring in bipolar disorder.
Positive, neutral and negative findings of the study will be published.
Communication while traveling in an automobile often is very difficult for hearing aid users.
This is because the automobile/road noise level is usually high, and listeners/drivers often do not have access to visual cues.
Since the talker of interest usually is not located in front of the listener/driver, conventional directional processing that places the directivity beam toward the listener's front may not be helpful and, in fact, could have a negative impact on speech recognition (when compared to omnidirectional processing).
Recently, technologies have become available in commercial hearing aids that are designed to improve speech recognition and/or listening effort in noisy conditions where talkers are located behind or beside the listener.
These technologies include (1) a directional microphone system that uses a backward-facing directivity pattern (Back-DIR processing), (2) a technology that transmits audio signals from the ear with the better signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) to the ear with the poorer SNR (Side-Transmission processing), and (3) a signal processing scheme that suppresses the noise at the ear with the poorer SNR (Side-Suppression processing).
30 runners;
15 swimmers.
Following the thermal therapy protocol, significant variation of pennation angle was detected at rest in Group A which had significantly lower values than before the treatment (17.5  2.9; p=0.01).
An orientation to the professional landscape is necessary for novices of any health discipline.
We describe an assignment aimed to develop the professional literacy of pharmacy students within their local Middle Eastern context.
Surgical simulation is becoming increasingly important in surgical education.
In this paper, we describe the design of our evidence-based preclinical training program for medical students applying for a surgical career at the Centre for Surgical Technologies.
Osteoblastomas are relatively uncommon bone tumors that account for &lt;1% of all bone tumors.
They usually occur in the medullary region of the bone.
As such, intraarticular osteoblastomas are quite rare.
Colonic lipomas are rare benign nonepithelial tumors of the colon.
They begin to be symptomatic when they reach a certain size, although the presentation can vary.
Different endoscopic and surgical treatment strategies have been reported in the literature.
MPO ANCA-associated vasculitis is very rare in children.
Renal disease is almost universally present but lung and central nervous system involvement are not commonly reported.
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and HIV are a serious global public health issue.
These diseases are largely preventable, as they are directly and indirectly associated with potentially modifiable factors, including socioeconomic conditions.
Sexual transmission is responsible for over 75% of new HIV infections worldwide.
Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is an effective treatment for anxiety in a variety of clinical populations.
Studies with children who have AS have reported some success.
The current study aims to examine whether modified group CBT for clinically significant anxiety in an AS population is likely to be efficacious.
The trial received a favourable ethical opinion from a National Health Service (NHS) Research Ethics Committee.
All participants provided written informed consent.
Findings will be shared with all trial participants, and the general public, as well as the scientific community.
Diabetes is a chronic condition associated with many long-term complications.
In consultations with healthcare professionals, patients receive advice about their diabetes but do not always discuss things which concern them, perhaps because of the perceived limited time or embarrassment.
We want to test a 'preconsultation' intervention in which the patient is supported by a healthcare assistant to complete a web-based intervention aimed at producing an agenda to help them identify important areas for discussion in the consultation.
Use of this agenda may enable the patient to play a more active role in that consultation and consequently become more confident, and hence more successful, in managing their condition.
Approval was granted by the NHS Research Ethics Committee North West-Preston (13/NW/0123).
Dissemination will include publication of quantitative and qualitative findings, and experience of public involvement in peer-reviewed journals.
Results will also be disseminated to trial participants via workshops led by lay coapplicants.
Persistent postconcussive symptoms (PCSs) is the persistence of somatic, cognitive, physical, psychological and/or behavioural changes lasting more than 1 month following concussion.
Validated, easy-to-use prognosticators do not exist for clinicians to identify children at highest risk.
Ethics has been obtained through the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Ethics Board.
Results will be disseminated at international conferences and in four manuscripts to peer-reviewed journals.
NCT00510406.
Anaphylaxis is a systemic, type I hypersensitivity reaction that often has fatal consequences.
Many of the principal clinical manifestations involve organs where mast cell concentrations are highest: the skin, the lungs, and the gastrointestinal tract.
Histamine and other deleterious inflammatory mediators promote vascular permeability and smooth muscle contraction; they are readily released from sensitized mast cells and basophils challenged with antigen.
Anaphylaxis may be triggered by a variety of antigens including insect and reptile venom, a variety of drugs, vaccines, and food.
Acetylsalicylic acid (ie, aspirin) administration inhibits platelet aggregation in dogs and is associated with increased perioperative blood loss and transfusion requirements in people.
Desmopressin acetate (DDAVP) is used to control or prevent bleeding in dogs with type 1 von Willebrand disease and is also widely reported in the human literature as an emergency antithrombotic reversal agent.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosures may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Although international studies have documented that patients' transitions between care providers are associated with the risk of adverse events and uncoordinated care, research directed towards the quality and safety of transitional care between primary and secondary health and care services, especially for the elderly receiving care from multiple healthcare providers due to complex health problems, is lacking.
The overall aim of the study was to explore different aspects of transitional care of the elderly, in different contexts and how they might explain the quality and safety of care.
The study is approved by the Norwegian Regional Committees for Medical and Health Research Ethics.
Interview and observation data material will be managed confidentially.
Mycophenolate sodium, an enteric-coated tablet (EC-MPS), is as effective and safe as mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in preventing transplant rejection.
Blood concentrations of mycophenolic acid (MPA), the active metabolite of EC-MPS, vary between participants despite fixed dosing.
Interpatient variability has been studied in transplantation, but not well documented in LN.
The relationship between MPA concentration and its clinical effect on LN has not been described.
The Human Research and Ethics Committee of the Royal Brisbane Women's Hospital have approved this study.
The study is registered with Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry-ACTRN12611000798965 We planned to present the de-identified information at conferences and publish the results in medical journals.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive, life-threatening illness of unknown aetiology, with no proven pharmacological treatments.
Furthermore, little is known about the support and information needs of individuals and their carers, or at what point individual need should trigger a referral to palliative care services.
Ethical approvals were gained in April 2012.
Palliative care research is a developing field, but there has been limited focus on IPF.
We will also support the lay representative involved in the project to disseminate the findings to patient groups.
The Scleroderma Patient-centered Intervention Network (SPIN) is an international collaboration of patient organisations, clinicians and researchers.
The aim of SPIN is to develop a research infrastructure to test accessible, low-cost self-guided online interventions to reduce disability and improve HRQL for people living with the rare disease systemic sclerosis (SSc or scleroderma).
Once tested, effective interventions will be made accessible through patient organisations partnering with SPIN.
Conversational techniques recorded by videotape and moderated by a sociologist (user dicussion groups and in-depth interviews for community leaders).
The diagnosis is usually set at adolescence, however it can remain asymptomatic and late diagnosis is possible.
NCT01332175.
Individual course day evaluations and 'Light bulb moment 'sessions captured qualitative data and a census form relating to interest in and uptake of SHC captured patient engagement data.
Large animal models of implantable hearing devices are needed to assess innovative technologies before using them in humans.
The rhesus macaque has cognitive abilities close to humans and has been used in the past but with noncommercial implants or no detailed radiologic descriptions of the surgical procedures.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of cochlear implantation in this animal model.
Immobilisation in the intensive care unit (ICU) leads to muscle weakness and is associated with increased costs and long-term functional disability.
Previous studies showed early mobilisation of medical ICU patients improves clinical outcomes.
The Surgical ICU Optimal Mobilisation Score (SOMS) trial aims to test whether a budget-neutral intervention to facilitate goal-directed early mobilisation in the surgical ICU improves participant mobilisation and associated clinical outcomes.
FollowingInstitutional Review Board (IRB) approval in three institutions, we started study recruitment and plan to expand to additional centres in Germany and Italy.
Safety monitoring will be the domain of the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB).
In this article, we present a methodological design for qualitative investigation of knowledge translation (KT) between participants in a participatory research project.
In spite of a vast expansion of conceptual models and frameworks for conducting KT between research and practice, few models emphasise how KTs come about.
The purpose of this article is to describe a methodological design for investigating how KTs come about in participatory research.
The project has been evaluated and approved by the Norwegian Social Science Data Services.
Informed consent was obtained for all participants.
The findings from this study will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and national and international conference presentations.
Helicopter emergency medical services (HEMS) aim to bring highly specialised crews to the major incident for triage, treatment and transport.
We aim to improve knowledge on HEMS role in a major incident and provide a basis for future research.
Harmful drinking among young people is common in Australia and many other countries.
Social norms and their influence on adolescents' alcohol consumption behaviours have received much research attention in recent years.
The data collected by the instrument is anticipated to inform the design of youth specific interventions with the potential to reduce alcohol-related harms.
The Study findings will be disseminated widely through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
The study has received approval from the Curtin University Human Research Ethics Committee.
Web-based lifestyle counselling designed to improve adherence to self-management behaviours for diet, exercise and medication has been shown to reduce blood pressure (BP).
Ethical approval has been obtained from all recruitment sites.
Findings from this study will be used to guide the ongoing development of e-counselling services.
A GnRHa trigger is an alternative to hCG in GnRH antagonist co-treated cycles.
No external funding was sought for this study.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
Study funding was received from the Faculty of Medicine, Uppsala University, Sweden.
There are no conflicts of interest.
Osteoarthritis (OA) has traditionally been considered a condition of older age.
However, younger people are also affected by hip and knee OA, often as a result of sporting and work-related injuries.
Ethics approval for the study has been obtained.
The study findings will be submitted to peer-reviewed journals and arthritis consumer organisations for broader dissemination, and presented at national and international scientific meetings.
Non-linear, parabolic (sub-exponential) and hyperbolic (super-exponential) models of prebiological evolution of molecular replicators have been proposed and extensively studied.
The parabolic models appear to be the most realistic approximations of real-life replicator systems due primarily to product inhibition.
Unlike the more traditional exponential models, the distribution of individual frequencies in an evolving parabolic population is not described by the Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) Principle in its traditional form, whereby the distribution with the maximum Shannon entropy is chosen among all the distributions that are possible under the given constraints.
We sought to identify a more general form of the MaxEnt principle that would be applicable to parabolic growth.
According to the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM), about one-third of American cancer patients have used complementary and alternative medicine (CAM).
Functional abdominal pain (FAP) is one of the most common functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) in children.
Currently, medical practitioners widely use tricyclic antidepressants to treat FAP.
Those antidepressants, however, have been associated with an increased risk of suicidal ideation, and the accompanying side effects often limit the benefits.
S-adenosylmethionine (SAM-e) is a dietary supplement that has efficacy as an antidepressant and as a treatment for chronic pain.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Most existing models of smoking cessation treatments have considered a single quit attempt when modelling long-term outcomes.
The single biggest barrier for countries in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) to scale up the necessary health services for addressing the three health-related Millennium Development Goals and achieving Universal Health Coverage is the lack of an adequate and well-performing health workforce.
This deficit needs to be addressed both by training more new health personnel and by improving the performance of the existing and future health workforce.
However, efforts have mostly been focused on training new staff and less on improving the performance of the existing health workforce.
The purpose of this paper is to disseminate the protocol for the PERFORM project and reflect on the key challenges encountered during the development of this methodology and how they are being overcome.
There is a growing body of evidence that suggests that green spaces may positively influence psychological well-being.
19/06/2012).
2009-009429-26.
The study was supported by Project Grant 457557, Practitioner Fellowship 202916 (R.R.G.
), Health Professional Fellowship 571179, and CIRUS Postdoctoral Fellowship (C.L.P.)
from the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council.
ResMed Inc. donated all continuous positive airway pressure equipment for the trial.
SomnoMed Ltd. donated all oral appliances for the trial and an unrestricted grant of A$60,000 to support the study.
The original randomized clinical trial, of which this study is a 2-year follow-up, is registered at ISRCTN.org; identifier: ISRCTN18174167; trial name: Management of the obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome: oral appliance versus continuous positive airway pressure therapy; URL: http://www.controlled-trials.com/ISRCTN18174167.
This pilot study examines these fluctuations during bodywork treatment.
Botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) complexes consist of neurotoxin and neurotoxin-associated proteins.
Hemagglutinin-33 (HA-33) is a member of BoNT type A (BoNT/A) complex.
Considering the protective role of HA-33 in preservation of BoNT/A in gastrointestinal harsh conditions and also its adjuvant role, recombinant production of this protein is favorable.
Thus in this study, HA-33 was expressed and purified, and subsequently its antigenicity in mice was studied.
L1 retrotransposons are the most active mobile DNA elements in human genome.
Unregulated L1 retrotransposition may have deleterious effect by disrupting vital genes and inducing genomic instabilities.
Therefore, human cells control L1 elements by silencing their activities through epigenetic mechanisms.
Here, we have proposed that weather neurotoxic environmental heavy metals (as L1 stimulating factors) have a role in removing L1 silencing and restating its activities in nondividing neuronal cells.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the leading cause of inherited intellectual and developmental disability.
Policy development relating to carrier screening programmes for FXS requires input from large studies examining not only test uptake but also psychosocial aspects.
This study will compare carrier screening in pregnant and non-pregnant populations, examining informed decision-making, psychosocial issues and health economics.
Ethics approval has been granted by the Universities of Melbourne and Western Australia and by recruiting clinics, where required.
Results will be reported in peer-reviewed publications, conference presentations and through a website http://www.fragilexscreening.net.au.
National Institute of Mental Health.
Pfizer.
Region of Scania Research and Development Foundation and Hssleholm Hospital Organization.
National Institute of Mental Health.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
However, bariatric surgical procedures such as Roux-en-Y gastric bypass are irreversible and associated with considerable short-term and long-term risks.
The EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner or duodenal-jejunal bypass sleeve (DJBS) is a fully reversible procedure that has been developed to treat obesity and type 2 diabetes.
We aim to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of safety and efficacy of DJBS.
The study will describe the impact of DJBS on obesity and type 2 diabetes and possibly contribute to clinical decision-making.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
39.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Bisphosphonate treatment for bone metastases is frequently administered via intravenous infusion, while a newer treatment is administered as a subcutaneous injection.
This study estimated the impact of these treatment modalities on health state preference.
National Institutes of Health and Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
Pfizer.
Clinical nurse specialists are recognized internationally for providing an advanced level of practice.
They positively impact the delivery of healthcare services by using specialty-specific expert knowledge and skills, and integrating competencies as clinicians, educators, researchers, consultants and leaders.
Graduate-level education is recommended for the role but many countries do not have formal credentialing mechanisms for clinical nurse specialists.
Previous studies have found that clinical nurse specialist roles are poorly understood by stakeholders.
Few national studies have examined the utilization of clinical nurse specialists.
In round 1 we tested 19 key points of information in a printed version of the EPAR summary for Bondronat (a cancer medicine).
This was then revised to address the findings, and tested in round 2.
In round 3 we tested the summary on-screen, and in round 4, tested a revised on-screen version, after addressing findings from both rounds 1 and 3.
The proposed study treatment will combine standard external beam radiation and the orally administered receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor sunitinib.
Furthermore, the study was approved by the German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (Reference number 4037708).
However, as human factors is becoming more prominent, there is growing evidence of confusion about human factors science, both anecdotally and in scientific literature.
Some of the misconceptions about human factors may inadvertently create missed opportunities for healthcare improvement.
The authors declare no conflict of interest and no financial support for the research.
No external funding was sought for this study.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
Merck Serono Netherlands, an affiliate of Merck Serono SA- Geneva, an affiliate of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany has donated the r-LH (Luveris()).
No conflict of interest to declare.
The study was funded by grants from ANR (French Agency for Research, SEST call on Environmental and Occupational Health), ANSES (French Agency for Food, environmental and Occupational Health Safety, EST call on Environmental and Occupational Health), InVS (French Institute for Public Health Surveillance).
Authors declare no conflict of interest.
This work was supported by Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research (grant no.
16591671 and 18591837) from the Ministry of Education, Sports, Culture, Science and Technology of Japan (to K.N.K.).
There is no conflict of interest related to this study.
E.S.J.
and M.G.T receive support from the Women's Reproductive Health Research Program sponsored by the National Institutes of Health (K12 HD063086).
The authors do not have any competing interests.
No external funding was sought for this study.
None of the authors has any conflicts of interest to declare.
and C.G.).
We also acknowledge the support by National Health and Medical Research Council, RD Wright Career Development Award 465121 and Senior Research Fellowship 1042298, and the Victorian Government's Operation Infrastructure Support Program to C.G.
and MRC G0601333 to T.V.Z.
All authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
The WERF EndoCost study is funded by the World Endometriosis Research Foundation (WERF) through grants received from Bayer Schering Pharma AG, Takeda Italia Farmaceutici SpA, Pfizer Ltd and the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
The sponsors did not have a role in the design and conduct of the study; collection, management, analysis and interpretation of the data; and preparation, review or approval of the manuscript.
L.H.
is the chief executive and T.D.
was a board member of WERF at the time of funding.
T.D.
holds the Merck-Serono Chair in Reproductive Medicine and Surgery, and the Ferring Chair in Reproductive Medicine at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium and has served as consultant/research collaborator for Merck-Serono, Schering-Plough, Astellas and Arresto.
This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) (31270969, 31101064 and 81270677) and Program for ZhouXue of Fudan University.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
The authors had no competing interests.
None.
This project was funded by Merck Serono (Grant for Fertility Innovation 2011).
Authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Funded by IPSEN, Boulogne-Billancourt, France.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
Funding for the present study was provided by Aarhus University, the Lippert Foundation, the Toyota Foundation, the Aase og Einar Danielsen foundation and by an unrestricted grant from MSD and Ferring.
The authors declare no conflict of interest.
This study was (partially) funded by Merck Serono (the Netherlands).
There are no conflicting interests to disclose.
This study was funded by the NIEHS Center Grant Pilot Project (P30-ES000002).
R.M.
was sponsored by a fellowship from the Environmental Health Fund, Israel and by the Frederick L. Hisaw Endowment, Harvard School of Public Health.
There are no conflicts of interest.
This study was supported by grants from the Wilhelm and Else Stockmann Foundation and the Medical Society Life and Health.
There are no competing interests to disclose.
and CHU Nice PHRC (PHRC 09-279).There are no competing interests.
This research was supported by the Intramural Research Program of the NIH, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
This study was financially supported by the National Elite Foundation and the Royan Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Technology.
The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
The authors have nothing to declare.
Departmental funds were used to support all authors during the study period and preparation.
This project was supported in part by funds from the intramural research program of the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health.
None of the authors has any conflicting interests to declare.
The original study was funded by the UNDP/UNPFA/WHO/World Bank Special Programme of Research, Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction.
This work was supported by grants NSC 96-2621-Z-006-013 and NSC 97-2621-M-006-001 from the Taiwan National Science Council.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.
All authors report no conflicts of interest.
This work was funded by National Cancer Institute grant CA58420.
We have no competing interests to report.
Although many studies have assessed poststroke objective cognitive impairment, only a few have evaluated patients' subjective cognitive complaints (SCC).
The study is being carried out in agreement with the Declaration of Helsinki and the Medical Research Involving Human Subjects Act.
The protocol has been approved by the medical ethics committees of the participating centres and all participants give written informed consent.
The results will be published in peer-reviewed journals and disseminated to the medical society and general public.
Perioperative cognitive deficits have been shown to persist after discharge and up to several years after surgery.
The proposed mechanisms to explain the cognitive decline associated with cardiac surgery include the neurotoxic accumulation of -amyloid.
This study will be the first to provide molecular imaging to assess the relationship between neocortical -amyloid deposition and postoperative cognitive dysfunction.
This study has been approved by the Duke University Institutional Review Board.
The results will provide novel mechanistic insights into postoperative cognitive dysfunction that will inform future studies into potential treatments or preventative therapies of long-term cognitive decline after cardiac surgery.
Approximately 14% of Australian women smoke during pregnancy.
Although the risk of adverse outcomes is reduced by smoking cessation, less than 35% of Australian women quit smoking spontaneously during pregnancy.
Ethical approval has been obtained for this study.
To enhance the translation of the project's findings into policy and practice, policy and clinical stakeholders will be engaged through a reference group and a policy forum will be held.
Outputs from the project will include scientific papers and summary reports designed for policy audiences.
Pre-eclampsia is a common pregnancy condition affecting between 3% and 7% of women.
Unfortunately, the exact pathophysiology of the disease is unknown and as such there are no effective treatments that exist notwithstanding prompt delivery of the fetus and culprit placenta.
As many cases of pre-eclampsia occur in preterm pregnancies, it remains a significant cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality.
Recently, in vitro and animal studies have highlighted the potential role of antioxidants in mitigating the effects of the disease.
Ethical approval has been obtained from Monash Health Human Research Ethics Committee B (HREC 13076B).
Data will be presented at international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals.
Previous work on the possible public health impact of electricity utilization has mostly considered low frequency electromagnetic fields, particularly those associated with high voltage overhead powerlines, but no generally accepted biological mechanism has been proposed.
The present study seeks to expand the area of debate to include airborne electroactivity.
In some studies, high intake of dietary fibre has been associated with a lower risk of colorectal cancer.
The present study aimed to compare physiological effects of three legume kernel fibres and citrus fibre on blood lipids (primary outcome: LDL cholesterol) and colonic health.
Patellofemoral pain (PFP) can cause significant pain leading to limitations in societal participation and physical activity.
We have proposed six potential subgroups: hip abductor weakness, quadriceps weakness, patellar hypermobility, patellar hypomobility, pronated foot posture and lower limb biarticular muscle tightness.
The aim of this study is to provide information on the clinical utility of our classification system.
An abstract has been accepted for the third International Patellofemoral Pain Research Retreat, Vancouver, September 2013.
The EDAP (Efficacy of Donepezil against Psychosis in PD) study will evaluate the efficacy of donepezil, a brain acetylcholine esterase inhibitor, for prevention of psychosis in PD.
Ethics approval was received from the Central Review Board of the National Hospital Organization, Tokyo, Japan.
The trial was declared and registered to the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency(PMDA), Japan (No.
22-4018).
All participants will receive a written informed consent that was approved by the Central Review.
A completed written informed consent is required to enrol in the study.
Severe adverse events will be monitored by investigators and in cases where a severe adverse event was previously unreported, it will be reported to the PMDA.
ISRCTN48342048.
American Cancer Society.
Catheter related blood stream infections (CRBSI) contributes significantly to morbidity, mortality and costs in intensive care unit (ICU).
The patient profile, infrastructure and resources in ICU are different in the developing world as compared to western countries.
Studies regarding CRBSI from pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) are scanty in the Indian literature.
Carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning is associated with direct cardiovascular toxicity.
Procalcitonin is a biomarker of bacterial sepsis.
It is unclear if scrub typhus, a rickettsial illness, is associated with elevated procalcitonin levels.
Histopathological evaluations can differentiate between clinically resembling trichoepithelioma (TE) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) unless the biopsy specimens are small or superficial.
Previous studies used immunohistochemical evaluation for Bcl-2 and cytokeratin 15 (CK15), in attempts to differentiate between these two entities, with heterogeneous findings.
The physical effects of the arthropod bites on human skin receive less attention, especially in the rural areas where the per capita income is less.
Inappropriate or excessive use of topical corticosteroids can lead to cutaneous and systemic adverse effects which occur more commonly with the use of very potent steroids.
Monitoring and analysis of the prescription practices of topical steroids can help to achieve rational prescription of these drugs.
Warts are sometimes resistant or they tend to recur after every possible destructive therapy.
Immunotherapy with skin-test antigens has been used as a viable therapeutic option in such recalcitrant cases.
There is an increase in awareness about the role of nutritional factors in chronic non-communicable diseases.
Endocrine complications are common after hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT).
This study was carried out with the objective to evaluate endocrine dysfunction among patients undergone HSCT in the past.
Skin thickness of type-2 diabetic insulin nave adult patients.
We have limited data on skin and subcutaneous tissue thickness of Indian type-2 diabetic population.
Objective of this study was to assess skin and subcutaneous tissue thickness in insulin nave type-2 diabetic patients as this information may be useful for insulin injection technique.
This work was aimed at performing bibliometric analysis of Indian Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism (IJEM).
In children, relatively few studies have investigated the effect of GHD and replacement therapy on cardiac performance and metabolic abnormalities that may place them at a higher risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) at an early age.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is associated with mental illnesses.
This study was undertaken to study the association of MetS and schizophrenia.
Stress is one of the most common problems; one manifestation of stress is burnout.
In this study, health effects of these radiations in personnel who routinely work with radar systems are investigated.
Hemkund Sahib is a popular pilgrimage located at 4,330 m in the Garhwal range of the Indian Himalayas.
Many travelers to the region have observed pilgrims exhibiting Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS)-like symptoms.
Avian influenza (AI) is a viral disease of domestic and wild birds.
The recent pandemics caused by highly pathogenic AIA (H5N1) in domestic poultry is currently rated phase 3 by the World Health Organization on the pandemicalert scale.
SILICOSIS IN COIMBATORE DISTRICT OF TAMIL NADU: A passive surveillance study.
It is estimated that approximately one in four people know someone who has taken their own life and that one suicide death leaves six or more suicide survivors.
Neurocysticercosis (NCC) is an endemic parasitic infection of Asia, Africa, Latin America, and central Europe.
Neuropsychiatric manifestations of the illness include epilepsy and behavioral disturbances.
Neuropsychological assessment plays a crucial role in the assessment of cognitive decline in older age.
The aim of the study was to examine clinical validity of NIMHANS Neuropsychological Battery for Elderly (NNB-E) in identifying early dementia.
Academic pressure, though established, is an unavoidable cause of depression in medical students.
Role of Type D personality as determinant of depression is a new approach to the problem.
Vascular access site management is crucial to safe, efficient, and comfortable diagnostic or interventional percutaneous procedures.
Fournier's gangrene is an aggressive disease with high morbidity and mortality.
Burch colposuspension is a standard treatment for stress urinary incontinence.
However, it is associated with recurrence and urinary retention.
We describe a modification of this technique to overcome these problems and evaluate the results in comparison with the standard procedure.
The preferred treatment of &gt;1cm stone is shockwave lithotripsy (SWL), while that of stone &lt;2 cm is percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL), but treatment of 1-2 cm renal stones is a controversial issue.
We searched the literature to present a comprehensive review on this group.
Both lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.)
and grass pea (Lathyrus sativus L.) in the family Fabaceae are two important cool-season food legumes, often experiencing water stress conditions during growth and maturity.
One of the target organs of heavy metals is testis and many authors proposed that oxidative stress could be responsible to induce their toxicity.
An experimental study was conducted to evaluate the molecular mechanisms of lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd) toxicity, their toxicodynamic interaction and to evaluate therapeutic potential of N-Acetyl L-cysteine (NAC) against the reproductive toxicity in male Wistar rats.
In the traditional system of medicine, the roots and rhizomes of Glycyrrhiza glabra (Gg) (family: Leguminosae) have been studied for their ability to improve a variety of health ailments.
Nepenthes species are used in traditional medicines to treat various health ailments.
However, we do not know which types of endophytic bacteria (EB) are associated with Nepenthes spp.
Chronic post-thoracotomy pain (CPP) has very high incidence and therefore it needs attention.
Usually, it is burning, dysaesthetic and aching in nature and it displays many features of neuropathic pain.
Necrotising Soft Tissue Infection is a rapidly progressing fatal disorder, the prognosis of which depends on early diagnosis and management.
Intercondylar (T-Condylar) fractures of the humerus are very rare in children.
The usual mechanism of the injury which is involved is a fall on a flexed elbow.
Open reduction is associated with significant post-operative stiffness of the elbow and subsequent less than satisfactory functional results.
In this publication, we are presenting our experience of treating seven adolescent T-Condylar fractures of the distal humerus with closed reductions and internal fixations with the percutaneus Kirchner ('K') wire.
Intertrochanteric fractures in osteoporotic bones which are grossly comminuted are highly unstable and difficult to treat.
Conservative treatment with traction and prolonged immobilization lands up with many complications and often fatality.
Revision osteosynthesis is technically demanding and it leads to complications.
Urolithiasis is a chronic disease of mankind, which has enormous public health importance and it accounts for a substantial economic burden on our society.
Hence, it becomes all the more important to formulate cheaper and easier means for treating this condition.
Hyponatraemia is one of the common electrolytic disorders which are associated with lung cancer.
Also, to the best of our knowledge, we found only limited Indian studies where the ECOG score was correlated with the serum sodium status in lung cancer patients on presentation.
VARK is a questionnaire which was developed by Neil Fleming (www.vark.learn.com), who was a teacher and an educator in New Zealand, with respect to the perceptual preferences in learning.
V stands for Visual- the students learn best from pictures, graphs and diagrams.
A stand for Aural - the students learn best from spoken words, lectures and discussions.
R stands for Reading - the students learn best from reading and writing texts.
K stands for Kinesthetic - the students learn best when they move their bodies and manipulate things with their own hands.
Liver is the largest gland in the body and it frequently gets wounded.
The objective of this study was to determine the patterns, types and severities of liver injuries which were caused by mechanical trauma and to study the organs associated with liver injuries.
Studying the pattern of psychiatric referrals may pave the way for interventions to improve the current scenario.
Dental researchers are contradictory in their opinion on the role of occlusion in TMD.
Identifying the factors responsible will facilitate precise diagnosis and treatment for TMD.
Periodontal disease during pregnancy markedly increases the woman's risk of developing preeclampsia.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate and compare whether periodontal disease increases the risk of preterm birth among preeclamptic and non-preeclamptic pregnant women.
Taurodontism is mostly observed as an isolated trait or a component of a syndrome.
Various techniques have been devised to diagnose taurodontism.
Since oral health is an integral part of the general health, we planned to determine its effect on the oral cavity.
Proper gingival retraction improves the prognosis of crowns and bridges with sub gingival finishlines.Use of lasers assists the operator to achieve proper retraction with good clinical results.
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) has antihypertrophic and antifibrotic properties that are relevant to AF substrates.
The -G664C and rs5065 ANP single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) have been described in association with clinical phenotypes, including hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy.
A recent study assessed the association of early AF and rs5065 SNPs in low-risk subjects.
Various neurotransmitters/neuromodulators - particularly both the glutamatergic and GABA-ergic ones - are involved in micturition/urinary continence nerve centre-based control, where Onuf's nucleus plays an important functional role under the adiuvant serotoninergic/ noradrenergic influences.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.
The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any of the materials discussed in this article.
The study was approved by Leeds Central Ethics Committee and informed consent was given by all participating patients.
Improving surgical quality is a priority, but building a business case for the efforts could be challenging.
Bridging the gap between the clinicians and hospital leaders is the first step to align quality and financial priorities within health care.
Cryptococcosis is a multisystemic disease of dogs, with a predilection for the CNS, caused by encapsulated yeast species of the genus Cryptococcus.
The 2 main pathogenic species are Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii (previously known as C. neoformans var.
gattii).
Cryptococcosis is an emerging disease in North America, with C. gattii gaining prominence as a cause of serious veterinary and human disease.
Persistent left superior vena cava (LSVC) is one of the common anomalies of the systemic veins.
Its prevalence is 0.1-0.3% in the general population and is more common with congenital heart disease (CHD).
The importance of detecting persistent LSVC prior to cardiac surgery is paramount for systemic veins cannulations.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder in developed countries.
The findings will be disseminated through peer reviewed journals, primary care conferences in Australia as well as abroad and through the Parkinson's community.
Most previous studies of endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for superficial esophageal neoplasms were retrospective; prospective studies are scant.
Endoscopic management of Barrett's esophagus (BE) has evolved over the past decade; however, the practice patterns for managing BE among gastroenterologists remain unclear.
Norwegian Resource Centre for Women's Health, Norway.
No conflict of interest.
The present study was supported by the Norwegian Research Council.
None of the authors has a conflict of interest.
NIH K12 HD063086 (ESJ, MGT), NIH T32 HD0040135-11 (KAR), F32 HD040135-10 NIH (KRO), 5K12HD000849-25 (PTJ).
No competing interests.
None of the authors received any funding specifically for this study, and we have no competing interests.
This work was partially supported by a grant from Ferring Pharmaceuticals.
The authors of the study have no conflict of interest to report.
G.M.C.
receives grant support to her institution from the Australian Government, Australian Research Council (ARC) Linkage Grant No LP1002165; ARC Linkage Grant Partner Organisations are IVFAustralia, Melbourne IVF and Queensland Fertility Group.
V.P.H.
is employed as an Economics Research Associate on the same grant.
P.J.I.
is Medical Director of the IVF Clinic, IVFAustralia and has a financial interest in the parent group, Virtus.
This project was funded by the NutsOhra foundation (Grant 1004-179).
There were no competing interests.
Funding for this study was provided by National Institutes of Health (NIH) grants RO3 TW007438 and K24 HD01476.
The authors report no relevant conflicts of interest.
This work was supported by the German Research Council (DFG) grant STE 885/3-2 (to A.S.).
All authors declare to have no conflict of interest.
This study was supported by French public research funds, the Institute Emilie du Chtelet from the Ile-de-France Region, the Biomedicine Agency and the Research Institute of Public Health (IReSP).
There are no conflicts of interest.
The study was funded by The Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development (ZonMw) (Grant no.
94517005).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
T.B.
is supported by the Imperial Healthcare NHS Trust NIHR Biomedical Research Centre.
This research is supported by Research Council KUL GOA MaNet, iMinds 2012, Belgian Federal Science Policy Office IUAP P719.
VVB is a postdoctoral fellow of the Research Foundation - Flanders (FWO).
There are no conflicts of interest.
This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81170541) and the Natural Basic Research Program of China (973 program 2010CB945103).
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
In addition, it was funded by the DFG-Research Unit FOR 1041 Germ Cell Potential (GR 1547/11-1 and SCHL 394/11-2), the BMBF (01GN0809/10) and the IZKF (CRA 03/09).
The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.
This study was supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), MOP82811 to Dr S.J.L.
This work was supported by the Italian Ministry of University (grant PRIN 2010-2012 to C.K.
), Tuscan Regional Health Research Program ('Progetto Salute 2009') to G.F., the Spanish Ministry of Health (grant FIS-11/02254) and the European Union 'Reprotrain' Marie Curie Network (project number: 289880 to C.K.).
The authors declare that no conflicting interests exist.
none.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
The present retrospective study was largely supported by departmental funds.
There were no competing interests.
None.
No funding was sought for this investigation.
MD declares relationships with UpToDate (royalties) and WINFertlity (consultant).
The research was supported by a Programme Grant, G0802782, from the Medical Research Council (MRC) UK and by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre based at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust and Imperial College London.
F.V.C was supported by Capes Foundation (Brazilian Ministry of Education).
The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.
This study was supported by grants from Basic Science Research Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF), which is funded by the Ministry of Education (2009-0093821, 2011-0010637).
There are no competing interests.
No external funding was sought for this study and the authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
There was no funding source to this study.
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
National Natural Science Foundation of China.
Assistance Publique-Hpitaux de Paris.
Quan SF; Budhiraja R; Clarke DP; Goodwin JL; Gottlieb DJ; Nichols DA; Simon RD; Smith TW; Walsh JK; Kushida CA.
Impact of treatment with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) on weight in obstructive sleep apnea.
NCT01253902.
The use of non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) in post-extubation respiratory failure is not well-established.
After lumbar or lumbosacral fusion for various spine disorders, adjacent segment disease has been reported.
Most of the studies have focused on proximal segment disease.
The author has reported sacroiliac joint degeneration in these patients.
However, limited data is available as a proof of this hypothesis.
It is conventionally considered that bone grafting is mandatory for Vancouver B3 periprosthetic femoral fractures (PFF) although few clinical studies have challenged the concept previously.
Some in vitro studies warn combining different metals in orthopedic surgery.
The aim of this study is to determine the impact of combining titanium and stainless steel on bone healing and the clinical course of patients undergoing internal fixation of femoral fractures.
Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) has specific indications, producing excellent results.
It, however, has a limited lifespan and needs eventual conversion to total knee arthroplasty (TKA).
We performed UKA in a series of 45 octogenarians with TCOA predominant medial compartment osteoarthritis (MCOA) and analyzed the results.
Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) following high tibial osteotomy (HTO) is a technically demanding procedure with varying results.
Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) can result in major postoperative blood loss which can impact on the recovery and rehabilitation of patients.
It also requires expensive transfusions.
The purpose of the study was to investigate whether a hemostatic matrix, composed of cross-linked gelatin and a thrombin solution, would reduce blood loss in patients following TKA.
Pilon fractures are challenging to manage because of the complexity of the injury pattern and the risk of significant complications.
The relationship between medial meniscus tear and posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) injury has not been exactly explained.
We studied to investigate the biomechanical effect of partial and complete PCL transection on different parts of medial meniscus at different flexion angles under static loading conditions.
Montelukast sodium (MS) a selective leukotriene antagonist of the cysteinyl leukotriene receptor, has been used in the treatment of asthma and allergic rhinitis.
In this study, we evaluated the effect of MS on the early inflammatory phase (histological) of nonsynovial tendon healing.
Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and total hip arthroplasty (THA) are the most widely practiced surgical options for arthritis all over the world and its application is rising in India.
The objectives of this study were to dissect the requirements for T cell-associated CD62L and (7) integrins during initiation, progression, and regulation of chronic colitis.
The trial was funded by an NHS applied research programme grant from the Chief Scientist Office of the Scottish government (ARPG/07/03).
NHS Lothian supported the telemonitoring service and the clinical services.
Assessing how effective PA interventions are as health interventions often involves categorising participants as either 'active' or 'sedentary' after the interventions.
A model was developed showing that doing this could significantly misestimate the health effect of PA interventions.
The best cut-off point was selected according to the ratio of cases correctly classified (RCC) and to the kappa index.
Direct (MMSd) and age- and education-adjusted (MMSa) total scores were analyzed separately.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
There is growing interest in the potential use of autologous fat grafting (AFG) for the purposes of breast reconstruction.
However, concerns have been raised regarding the technique's clinical effectiveness, safety and interference with screening mammography.
The objective of this systematic review was to determine the oncological, clinical, aesthetic and functional, patient reported, process and radiological outcomes for AFG.
This systematic review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
It will also be presented at national and international conferences in the fields of plastic, reconstructive and aesthetic surgery and at more general surgical and methodological conferences.
It will be disseminated electronically and in print.
Brief reports of the review findings will be disseminated directly to the appropriate audiences of surgeons and societies through email and other modes of communication.
Updates of the review will be conducted to inform and guide healthcare practice and policy.
Alcohol use among young people is a major public health concern in Australia and internationally.
Research elucidating social norms influencing alcohol use supports the desire to conform to peers.
However, there is a lack of evidence on how social norms are transmitted from the community to young people and between family members and peers, as previous studies are limited to mainly school and university environments.
This article describes the proposed process to investigate common alcohol-related norms held by 14-year-olds to 17-year-olds in Perth, Western Australia, and to clarify the process and pathways through which proalcohol norms are transmitted to adolescents.
The Curtin University Human Research Ethics Committee has granted approval for this research.
The vitreous humor was collected from 20 healthy donor eyes and the retinal pigment epithelial cells were obtained from 9 healthy donor eyes.
17, No.
46.
See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
primary (hereditary) or secondary (acquired).
The acquired type most commonly occurs after massive intake of iron supplements or blood transfusions and is also known as transfusional iron overload.
In the past, hemochromatosis was usually recognized at an advanced stage by the classic triad of hyperpigmentation, diabetes mellitus ("bronze diabetes"), and hepatic cirrhosis.
Cutaneous hyperpigmentation is present in 70 percent of patients due to two different mechanisms: (1) hemosiderin deposition resulting in diffuse, slate-gray darkening and (2) increased production of melanin in the epidermis.
A 47-year-old woman who receives regular transfusions due to low iron and chronic, unresolving anemia and who subsequently developed pronounced hyperpigmentation of the upper eyelids is described.
The presentation, diagnosis, pathogenesis, and treatment options of hyperpigmentation due to secondary hemochromatosis are discussed.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is one of the most common endocrine disorders in reproductive-age women.
Chinese herbal medicine has been used for the treatment of PCOS, but the evidence for its efficacy and safety is minimal.
Tanshinones are a class of bioactive molecules isolated from Salvia miltiorrhiza, a commonly used herb in Traditional Chinese Medicine.
Written informed consent will be obtained from each participant at the time of enrolling in the study.
Results will be disseminated through a publicly accessible website.
Panic-like anxiety (panic attacks with or without panic disorder), a highly treatable condition, is the most prevalent condition associated with unexplained chest pain in the emergency department.
Panic-like anxiety may be responsible for a significant portion of the negative consequences of unexplained chest pain, such as functional limitations and chronicity.
However, more than 92% of panic-like anxiety cases remain undiagnosed at the time of discharge from the emergency department.
This study protocol has been reviewed and approved by the Alphonse-Desjardins research ethics committee.
Further dissemination via workshops and a dedicated website is planned.
Calcium plays an essential role in nearly all cellular processes.
As such, cellular and systemic calcium concentrations are tightly regulated.
During sepsis, derangements in such tight regulation frequently occur, and treating hypocalcemia with parenteral calcium administration remains the current practice guideline.
The decrease in core body temperature before sleep onset and during sleep is associated with dilation of peripheral blood vessels, which permits heat dissipation from the body core to the periphery.
A lower core temperature coupled with a higher distal (hands and feet) temperature before sleep are associated with shorter sleep latency and better sleep quality.
A warm footbath is thought to facilitate heat dissipation to improve sleep outcomes.
After a diagnosis of localised breast cancer, overweight, obesity and weight gain are negatively associated with prognosis.
Secondary aims include assessing the acceptability of the intervention, compliance to the programme, process implementation, patients' satisfaction, evolution of biological parameters and the medicoeconomic impact of the intervention.
The study was approved by the French Ethics Committee (Comit de Protection des Personnes Sud-Est IV) and the national agencies for biomedical studies and for privacy.
All participants will give written informed consent.
The transition to primary school appears crucial for a child's future academic and psychological well-being.
Addressing conditions which negatively affect children during this period, such as poor sleep, may improve these outcomes.
This trial will determine whether the same intervention is beneficial and cost-effective when delivered by an existing school-based health workforce.
However, the role of service-related factors has been less well explored.
Ethical approval was granted by the Clinical Research Ethics Committee of the Cork Teaching Hospitals, Ireland.
Results will be presented at conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
47.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Patellofemoral pain syndrome is a common disorder of the knee with multifactorial aetiology.
Multimodal treatment, including exercise therapy, has been shown to be effective in the treatment of patellofemoral pain, although some patients continue to experience pain and dysfunction despite treatment.
To address this, recent research has started to investigate the lumbo-pelvic and hip girdle in patellofemoral pain.
3a.
Restricted mobility can consequently have deleterious effects not only at the involved joint but throughout the entire kinetic chain.
Promising findings are suggesting benefit with skilled joint mobilization intervention for clients with various hip pathologies.
Supervised home program intervention, while lacking specifically for the hip joint, are demonstrating promising results in other regions of the body.
Pregnancy is associated with decreased insulin sensitivity, which is usually overcome by a compensatory increase in insulin secretion.
Some pregnant women are not able to increase their insulin secretion sufficiently, and consequently develop gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM).
The disease normally disappears after delivery.
The protocol has been approved by the Danish Medicines Agency, the Scientific-Ethical Committee of the Capital Region of Denmark, and the Danish Data Protection Agency and will be carried out under the surveillance and guidance of the GCP unit at Copenhagen University Hospital Bispebjerg in compliance with the ICH-GCP guidelines and in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration.
Positive, negative and inconclusive results will be published at scientific conferences and as one or more scientific manuscripts in peer-reviewed journals.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
49.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
Dental infections have recently been related with a possible risk factor for Neurodegenerative pathologies like Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Hyperhomocysteinemia is a risk factor for vascular diseases.
This study aimed to investigate the serum total homocysteine (tHcy) level and nutritional status in elderly inpatients and determine the relationship between tHcy level and nutritional status.
National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health.
National Institute on Drug Abuse and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
The Scientific Committee of the Capital Region (case No.
H-1-2011-131) and the Danish Data Protection Agency (j.
No.
2011-41-6349) approved the study.
Data will be entered and locked into a database hosted by the Copenhagen Trial Unit, Rigshosptialet.
Results will be published in peer-reviewed scientific journals.
12 databases were searched.
Additional searches were performed through the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Electronic Medicines Compendium websites, Google internet searches and contacting clinical experts.
Reference lists of relevant articles were checked for additional studies.
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is now the commonest cause of chronic liver disease.
Despite this, there are no universally accepted pharmacological therapies for NASH.
Liraglutide (Victoza), a human glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue, has been shown to improve weight loss, glycaemic control and liver enzymes in type 2 diabetes.
The protocol was approved by the National Research Ethics Service (East Midlands-Northampton committee; 10/H0402/32) and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
Recruitment into the LEAN started in August 2010 and ended in May 2013, with 52 patients randomised.
The treatment follow-up of LEAN participants is currently ongoing and is due to finish in July 2014.
The findings of this trial will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and international presentations.
Allergic asthma is a globally respiratory inflammatory disease.
Self-administered questionnaire.
Health benefits of regular participation in physical activity are well documented but population levels are low.
The primary aim of this study was to investigate associations between office layout and physical activity, as well as sitting time using objective measures.
Ethical approval was obtained through the University College London Research Ethics Committee (Reference number 4400/001).
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
51.
See the HTA programme website for further project information.
No other subtypes of influenza virus are circulating in Norwegian pigs.
Swine workers may play a key role in transmission of zoonotic influenza viruses.
At the same time, little is known about the extent and effectiveness of influenza prevention programs for these at-risk workers.
Routine data on 36 months of use of emergency ambulance service calls and incidents, emergency department attendances, urgent care contacts (general practice (GP) out of hours, walk in and urgent care centres) and calls to the telephone triage service NHS direct.
The most effective way to reduce catheter-associated urinary tract infections (CA-UTIs) is to avoid unnecessary urinary catheterisation and to minimise the duration of catheterisation.
This study was funded by the NHLBI/NIH (R01 HL-067914).
None.
This study was funded by the US National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD, R01-HD052990).
No competing interests are declared.
Funding was provided by the department's own research facilities.
); Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Parsippany, NJ; East Coast Fertility, Plainview, NY and the CMBG Training Program (T32 GM007491 to M.J.S.).
We report no competing interests.
New Zealand: New Enterprise Research Fund, Foundation for Research Science and Technology; Health Research Council; Evelyn Bond Fund, Auckland District Health Board Charitable Trust.
Australia: Premier's Science and Research Fund, South Australian Government.
Ireland: Health Research Board.
Leeds: Cerebra Charity, Carmarthen.
King's College London: Guy's and St Thomas' Charity.
King's College London and Manchester: Tommy's-The Baby Charity.
This work was supported by research grants from the Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) (PI10/00897) and Fundacin Mutua Madrilea to M.R.
M.R.
holds a Miguel Servet contract from the ISCIII (CP08/00228).
M.A.M.-F. was supported by (ISCIII) INTRASALUD PI09/02029.
We have no conflicts of interest to declare.
p,p'-DDE may promote non-genomic actions and interact directly with pre-existing signaling pathways, as already observed in other cell types.
The study was supported by both the Portuguese National Science Foundation (FCT; PEst-C/SAU/LA0001/2011) and the UK Wellcome Trust (Grant #86470).
SM was supported by the Infertility Research Trust.
RST is a recipient of a PhD fellowship from FCT (SFRH/BD/46002/2008).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
Research at the Fertility Clinic was funded by an unrestricted grant from Ferring and MSD.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Merck-Serono S. A. Geneva-Switzerland (an affiliate of Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany) and the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC, UK) funded this project (RES-355-25-0038, 'Fertility Pathways Network').
L.B.
is funded by a postdoctoral fellowship from the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the ESRC (PTA-037-27-0192).
B.F. is funded by an interdisciplinary PhD studentship from the ESRC/MRC (ES/1031790/1).
I.T.
is an employee of Merck-Serono S.A. Geneva-Switzerland (an affiliate of Merck KGaA Darmstadt, Germany).
We received funding from the South-Eastern Regional Health Authority in Norway for this study (2011136-2012).
None of the authors has any conflicts of interest to declare.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This study was partially supported by a grant from Merck Serono.
O.H., M.J.C.E, A.V., P.A.D., R.E.B., G.J.E.O., C.A.G.H., G.C.D.M., H.J.V., P.F.M.H.
and A.B.
have nothing to declare.
F.J.B.
has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Ferring, Gedeon Richter, Merck Serono, MSD and Roche.
B.J.C.
has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Ferring, Merck Serono and MSD.
C.B.L has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Auxogen, Ferring, Merck Serono and MSD.
B.C.J.M.F.
has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Andromed, Ardana, Ferring, Genovum, Merck Serono, MSD, Organon, Pantharei Bioscience, PregLem, Schering, Schering Plough, Serono and Wyeth.
J.S.E.L.
has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Ferring, Gennovum, MSD, Merck Serono, Organon, Schering Plough and Serono.
N.S.M.
has received fees and grant support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Anecova, Ferring, Merck Serono, MSD, Organon and Serono.
The study was supported by the Danish Council for Independent Research (271-05-0296, 09-065631), the Danish Ministry of Interior and Health (0-302-02-18/5), the Danish Council for Strategic Research (09-067124 (Centre for Fetal Programming), 09-063072, 2101-06-0005), the Novo Nordisk Foundation, the Aarhus University Research Foundation, the Frimodt-Heineke Foundation, the Foundation of Maria Dorthea and Holger From, the Beckett-Foundation, the Research Grant of Organon and the Foundation of Lily Benthine Lund.
There are no competing interests.
Part of this work was supported by a grant awarded by the Italian Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Policies.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
No conflict of interest exists.
This study was supported by a grant of Seoul National University Hospital Research Fund (04-2011-0870).
This work was supported by the Italian Ministry of University and Research (grant no.
2009AMPA9C to C.F.)
and Padova University (grant 2010 to A.D.R.).
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
The study was supported by research grants from Merck Serono and Ferring Pharmaceuticals.
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Financial support for this study was obtained from the UNDP/UNFPA/World Bank/WHO Special Programme of Research, Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP).
D.G.C.
is currently employed by and holds stock in Manawatu Diagnostics Ltd, a company in the development phase of a potentially competing product.
The remaining authors have nothing to declare.
Patients were enrolled from four primary care practices and were asked to collect family health history before a physical exam using either telephone-based interactive voice response (IVR) technology, a secure Internet portal, or a waiting room laptop computer, with portal assigned by practice.
A systematic assessment of patients' needs and available rehabilitation services constitute the foundation for timely, comprehensive and coordinated cancer rehabilitation.
The quench process in high-temperature superconducting (HTS) wires plays an important role in superconducting power devices, such as fault current limiters, magnets, cables, etc.
The superconducting device should survive after the overheating due to quench.
Anemia is a common clinical problem in cardiac surgery patients in the postoperative period and may result in transfusion in up to 90% of this population.
There is tremendous variation in transfusion rates by hospital and individual physician.
It is unknown if implementation of a clinical practice guideline lowers unnecessary transfusion in hospital practices that already have a restrictive transfusion culture .
Study findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications and conference presentations.
Sexuality is an important part of people's physical and mental health.
Treatment and care possibilities seem to be lacking.
The CopenHeartSF trial will investigate the effect of a comprehensive sexual rehabilitation programme versus usual care.
CopenHeartSF is approved by the regional ethics committee (no H-4-2012-168) and the Danish Data Protection Agency (no 2007-58-0015) and is performed in accordance with good clinical practice and the Declaration of Helsinki in its latest form.
Reports evaluating a possible association between necrotising enterocolitis (NEC) and blood transfusion have been predominantly case-control studies.
As the possible associations of disease with any variable on which cases and controls have been matched cannot be explored, a cohort study would offer a solution to this problem.
The aim of this systematic review is to analyse the trial data on the efficacy of herbal medicines for acute otitis media.
The systematic review will be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
The review will also be disseminated electronically and in print.
Updates of the review will be conducted to inform and guide the healthcare practice and policy.
Famine exposure during childhood.
Sleep duration and quality have been associated with obesity.
Sleep disturbance has been reported to be associated with stress and depression among non-obese populations, but these relationships have not been previously examined in the obese population.
National Center of Excellence for Clinical Trial and Research.
None.
Over the past two decades, India has witnessed a staggering increase in the incidence and mortality of ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).
Yet, the recommended reperfusion therapy with fibrinolysis and percutaneous coronary intervention is available only to a minority of patients.
This gap in care is a result of financial barriers, limited healthcare infrastructure and poor knowledge and accessibility of acute medical services for a majority of its population.
The reliability of binary exposure classification methods is routinely reported in occupational health literature because it is viewed as an important component of evaluating the trustworthiness of the exposure assessment by experts.
However, the question we are really interested in is not so much the reliability of an exposure assessment method, although this holds value in itself, but the validity of the exposure estimates.
Informed consent will be obtained from all participants and a Regional Ethics Research Committee has approved the protocol.
Results will be disseminated in peer-reviewed publications and presented at the national and the international conferences.
Trust is a forward-looking covenant between the patient and the doctor where the patient optimistically accepts his/her vulnerability.
Trust is known to improve the clinical outcomes.
In late May 2012, Bagjan division of Borbam tea estate, of Sivasagar district of Assam was affected by an outbreak of acute watery diarrhea, subsequently confirmed as Vibrio cholerae O1.
Saphenous nerve entrapments are a very rare condition within today's body of literature, and the diagnosis remains controversial.
In addition, the effective emergency management of sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) has reported lower survival outcomes (9% with bystander CPR, 24% with AED application) although improvements, such as strategic placements of AED units and Hands-Only (compression only) CPR, are being made.
Prior research has implicated the importance of personal distress and functional impairment, as both may serve as indicators of problem severity and relevance.
Still, little is known about associations with distress and impairment following hypersexuality.
Mongolia has experienced vast migration from rural to urban areas since the 1950s.
There is a misconception that cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the burden of wealthy nations, but, in fact, it is the leading cause of death and disability-adjusted life worldwide.
Healthy diets are an essential factor in the prevention of CVD.
Multiple factors, cultural values and beliefs interact and make healthy eating very challenging.
The effects of these factors in the context of low-SES populations with CVD are largely unknown.
To address this gap, this study will examine the factors that affect decisions about consuming healthy diet in Pakistanis with low SES who suffer from CVD.
The findings will generate new knowledge about which and how factors influence the food choices of Pakistanis with CVD and low SES to provide an insight into the development of an operational framework for designing interventions for prevention of CVD.
For knowledge-translation purposes, we will publish the findings in highly accessed, peer-reviewed scientific and health policy journals at the national and international level.
This research protocol received IRDC (International Development Research Centre) doctoral award from International Development Research Centre, Ottawa, Canada.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
17, No.
57.
See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
A statistical model of digit preference assuming rounding is used to quantify the proportions rounding to specific accuracy levels.
These proportions are compared between those &lt;1000 g and those above and over the 20-year time period.
Headache, musculoskeletal symptoms, and vitamin D deficiency are common in the general population.
However, the interrelations between these three have not been delineated in the literature.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a rapidly progressive, fatal, transmissible neurodegenerative disorder caused by prion protein.
It is still considered rare in countries like India.
This is probably due to nonavailability of autopsy studies in majority of the center.
The recent European diagnostic criterion for sporadic CJD (sCJD) is useful for making an early diagnosis.
Rhabdomyolysis results from many causes including hypernatremia.
Postpartum hypernatremia with osmotic cerebral demyelination is a rare cause of reversible rhabdomyolysis.
Electromyographic studies in postpartum hypernatremia have not been reported.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment ; Vol.
17, No.
59.
See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
There is a need to develop new, more cost-effective models of healthcare and in this vein there is a considerable international interest in exploiting the potential offered by major developments in health information technologies (HITs).
Very substantial investments are, as a result, now being made globally, but these still probably only represent a fraction of the investments needed if healthcare is to make the transition from the paper to the digital era.
Investing greater resources is, however, inherently challenging and unpopular at a time of financial austerity and this is furthermore complicated by the thus far variable evidence of health benefits and demonstrable short-term to medium-term returns associated with investments in HITs.
Ethical approval is not required.
Independent of age, sex, ethnicity and comorbidity, strong associations exist between cardiovascular disease, mortality, morbidity and CKD, defined by reduced glomerular filtration rate and increased urinary albumin excretion.
The protocol and related documents have been approved by NRES Committee South Central-Oxford B-Reference 13/SC/0020.
Serum insulin, C-peptide and glucose at fasting (0), 30, 60, 90 and 120 min were measured during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT).
Second-void fasting UCPCR and 120 min post-OGTT UCPCR were collected.
HOMA2-IR was calculated using fasting insulin and glucose.
The associations between UCPCR and serum measures were assessed using Spearman's correlations.
We aimed to fill this gap for Malawi, a country in sub-Saharan Africa with high maternal mortality.
Aortic stenosis (AS) is the commonest valve disorder in the developed world requiring surgery.
Exercise testing can identify asymptomatic patients at increased risk of death and symptom development, but with limited specificity, especially in older adults.
Cardiac MRI (CMR), including myocardial perfusion reserve (MPR) may be a novel imaging biomarker in AS.
MPR will be a better predictor of outcome than exercise testing and BNP.
The study has full ethical approval and is actively recruiting patients.
Data collection will be completed in November 2014 and the study results will be submitted for publication within 6 months of completion.
NCT01658345.
Investigations for multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 and parathyroid adenoma were initiated.
Pedestrian-friendly neighborhoods with proximal destinations and services encourage walking and decrease car dependence, thereby contributing to more active and healthier communities.
Proximity to key destinations and services is an important aspect of the urban design decision making process, particularly in areas adopting a transit-oriented development (TOD) approach to urban planning, whereby densification occurs within walking distance of transit nodes.
Modeling destination access within neighborhoods has been limited to circular catchment buffers or more sophisticated network-buffers generated using geoprocessing routines within geographical information systems (GIS).
Both circular and network-buffer catchment methods are problematic.
Circular catchment models do not account for street networks, thus do not allow exploratory 'what-if' scenario modeling; and network-buffering functionality typically exists within proprietary GIS software, which can be costly and requires a high level of expertise to operate.
There is currently little guidance for pilot trial economic evaluation where health outcomes and costs are influenced by a range of wider determinants and factors.
Dietary estimates were converted to urine equivalents based on 79 pairs of dual measurements.
Persistently symptomatic patients worsen with a disabling, potentially fatal clinical course.
To determine a possible infectious cause, we correlated in a case-control study the clinical information with the presence of bacterial DNA in sarcoidosis mediastinal lymph nodes compared with control lymph nodes resected during cancer surgery.
Fetal growth restriction complicates about 5% of pregnancies and is commonly caused by placental dysfunction.
It is associated with increased risks of perinatal mortality and short-term and long-term morbidity, such as cerebral palsy.
Chronic in utero hypoxaemia, inflammation and oxidative stress are likely culprits contributing to the long-term neurological sequelae of fetal growth restriction.
In this regard, we propose that melatonin, a powerful antioxidant, might mitigate morbidity and/or mortality associated with fetal growth restriction.
Melatonin has an excellent biosafety profile and crosses the placenta and blood-brain barrier.
Ethical approval has been obtained from Monash Health Human Research Ethics Committee B (HREC12133B).
Data will be presented at international conferences and published in peer-reviewed journals.
Although on the decline, smoking-related fires remain a leading cause of fire death in the United States and United Kingdom and account for over 10% of fire-related deaths worldwide.
This has prompted lawmakers to enact legislation requiring manufacturers to implement reduced ignition propensity (RIP) safety standards for cigarettes.
The effect of added therapist support will also be studied.
A variety of self-report and physical performance-based outcome measures are commonly used to assess progress and recovery in the lower leg, ankle, and foot.
There is a lack of consistency in how responsiveness is defined in all outcome measures.
Dysfunction of the subscapularis muscle is introduced in this case report as a potential factor for consideration in the etiology and/or consequential sequelae of subacromial impingement syndrome.
Although dysfunction of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus are implicated as being most commonly involved with subacromial impingement pathology, the subscapularis is often overlooked and therefore undertreated.
The authors reviewed the most relevant published literature on MP from 1970 to 2013 located using the databases PubMed, CINAHL, and Proquest.
MP still remains a diagnostic challenge since it can mimic other common diagnoses.
Understanding the current literature surrounding the diagnosis and treatment of MP is essential for clinicians practicing in the outpatient environment.
The consensus on the most effective non-surgical and surgical interventions is still limited, as is the research on physical therapy interventions for this condition.
Perhaps the lack of research and global consensus represents a knowledge deficit that makes MP a challenge to diagnose and successfully treat.
CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes have been recently divided based on their cytokine expression profile.
The current therapies are inadequate in managing atopic dermatitis and often have associated adverse effects or drug tolerance development.
Chinese medicine is expected to have promising prospects in the management of atopic dermatitis and recent studies have shown encouraging results.
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a newly formulated Chinese herbal formula, RMIT Chinese Medicine-106 (RCM-106), in the management of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in children aged 6-18 years.
This trial has received human ethics approval from the Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) of RMIT University (Project number 15/12).
The study findings will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented at the national and international conferences.
Diabetes mellitus is a complex metabolic disorder whose detrimental effects on various organ systems, including the nervous system are well known.
Soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) is known to be elevated in different clinical situations including hypercholesterolemia, acute coronary syndromes, and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), Data about the relationship between type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and sCD40L is limited.
In addition, the potential role ofsCD40Lin the pathogenesis of vascular complications in children and adolescents with T1DM is to be clarified.
Hence, the study aimed at assessment of sCD40L levels in children and adolescents with T1DM and correlation of these levels with glycemic control and microalbuminuria.
Developing effective exercise programs is a strategy for decreasing this prevalence and limiting obesity-associated long-term comorbidities.
Low testosterone levels are associated with an atherogenic lipid profile and may contribute to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
Almost 15% of India's urban adult populace now lives with type 2 diabetes.
This study aimed to characterize the eating patterns, knowledge, beliefs, and determinants of food choice, and assess associations with the metabolic health among urban Asian Indians with type 2 diabetes.
Primary hypothyroidism is one of the most frequent complications observed in-patients suffering from thalassemia.
Increased awareness about VDD among treating physicians has led to increased prescriptions of vitamin D preparations.
Based on our experience of varied clinical and radiological response with different vitamin D formulations, we decided to assess cholecalciferol content of commonly available vitamin D formulations.
Pheochromocytomas or Paragangliomas are neroendocrine tumors elaborating catecholamines.
They can grow large enough to impinge on the great vessels and yet symptoms may not indicate the severity until late.
On investigation for hypertension a large paraganglioma was discovered wrapped around the Aorta and vena cava.
He was operated successfully after preoperative preparation and was discharged normotensive.
This study aimed to design and develop a new formulation based on albumin nanospheres containing zinc-phthalocyanine tetrasulfonate (ZnPcS4-AN) for use in the PDT protocol and to investigate its antitumor activity in Swiss albino mice using the Ehrlich solid tumor as an experimental model for breast cancer.
Nanosuspensions are an important class of delivery system for vaccine adjuvants and drugs.
This nanosuspension is a clinical vaccine adjuvant known as GLA-AF.
We examined the effects of DPPC supplier, buffer composition, and manufacturing process on GLA-AF physicochemical and biological activity characteristics.
Although operative treatment may offer an appropriate management option for displaced glenoid fractures, there is sparse research assessing post-operative functional outcomes.
This study assessed functional outcomes of patients after undergoing open reduction and internal fixation of displaced glenoid fractures.
In current times, knee arthroscopy is the most common orthopaedic procedure.
Over the years, the preferential method of anaesthesia has been general or spinal anaesthesia.
The use of local anaesthesia (LA) in knee arthroscopies has been mentioned in surprisingly few orthopaedic publications over the past few decades.
This reflects the very moderate role of LA in general compared to other forms of anaesthesia, even though the majority of operations in orthopaedic practice can be regarded as minor procedures.
The aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of LA in knee arthroscopies.
Supracondylar femoral osteotomy is the time tested method, used for correcting the angular (varus &amp; valgus) deformities at the knee.
Here, a medial or lateral based wedge of bone is removed or an open wedge osteotomy is made &amp; subsequently the space is filled with the bone graft to achieve the desired correction.
This osteotomy is subsequently stabilized with Kirschner wires or plate &amp; screws.
Later the limb is externally supported in brace or plaster cast till osteotomy unites.
Here we present a case series of 10 cases, where we have analyzed the efficacy of Aglietti procedure for achieving normal limb alignment with good patient satisfaction and subsequent knee function as a method of femoral supracondylar osteotomy for correcting the valgus deformity at the knee.
Ten valgus adolescent knees were operated in 7 patients by the Aglietti procedure for correcting the angular deformity at the knee.
Clomiphene citrate (CC) is most commonly used as a first-line treatment of infertility.
However, a disturbance of endometrial growth by the adverse effects of the CC has been recognized.
This study was undertaken to investigate whether the modified CC treatments are useful to prevent a thin endometrium in patients undergoing CC treatments.
Faculty involvement in resident teaching events is beneficial to resident education, yet evidence about the factors that promote faculty attendance at resident didactic conferences is limited.
To develop these methods, it is relevant to know the general features of trainees' performance that facilitate supervisors' trust in their ability to perform critical clinical tasks.
Entrustable professional activities (EPAs) can form the foundation of competency-based assessment in medical training, focused on performance of discipline-specific core clinical activities.
The 6 competencies defined by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education provide the framework of assessment for trainees in the US graduate medical education system, but few studies have investigated their impact on remediation.
Endotracheal intubation (ETI) is an essential skill that emergency medicine residents learn throughout their training.
The American Board of Internal Medicine approved the use of Practice Improvement Modules (PIMs) to help training programs teach and assess practice-based learning and improvement (PBLI) and systems-based practice (SBP).
Many academic hospitals have incorporated family-centered rounds, yet little is known about pediatrics residents' perspectives on the educational impact of these rounds.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) recommends that residents gain broad procedural competence in pediatrics training.
There is little recent information regarding practice patterns after graduation.
End-of-residency outpatient handoffs affect at least 1 million patients per year, yet there is no consensus on best practices.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Outcome Project introduced 6 general competencies relevant to medical practice but fell short of its goal to create a robust assessment system that would allow program accreditation based on outcomes.
In response, the ACGME, the specialty boards, and other stakeholders collaborated to develop educational milestones, observable steps in residents' professional development that describe progress from entry to graduation and beyond.
Medical error is a major cause of preventable morbidity and mortality.
Resident fatigue is likely to be a significant contributor.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education Outcome Project intended to move residency education toward assessing and documenting resident competence in 6 dimensions of performance important to the practice of medicine.
Although the project defined a set of general attributes of a good physician, it did not define the actual activities that a competent physician performs in practice in the given specialty.
These descriptions have been called entrustable professional activities (EPAs).
Given the potential for a socioeconomic "gulf" between physicians and patients and the lack of curricula that address the specific needs of poor patients, resident knowledge about caring for this underserved population is low.
The transition from internship to residency training may be a stressful time for interns, particularly if it involves a change among programs or institutions after completing a preliminary year.
The internal medicine milestones were developed to advance outcomes-based residency training and will play an important role in the next accreditation system.
Excessive, sometimes unnecessary consultation challenges the ophthalmology resident's ability to obtain adequate rest and personal time while taking at-home calls.
Increased documentation and charting requirements are challenging for residents, given duty hour limits.
Use of mobile electronic devices may help residents complete these tasks efficiently.
The multidisciplinary diabetes team approach is underused in residency education.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education requires residency programs to ensure safe patient handovers and to document resident competency in handover communication, yet there are few evidence-based curricula teaching resident handover skills.
A rapidly evolving body of literature in medical education can impact the practice of clinical educators in graduate medical education.
There are frequently competing demands, and being paged is among the most common.
Routine abortion training is not offered at all obstetrics and gynecology (Ob-Gyn) training programs, despite a specific training requirement by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.
Previous studies that described Ob-Gyn programs with routine abortion training either examined associations by using national surveys of program directors or described the experience of a single program.
Prior data suggest that opportunities in family planning training may be limited during obstetrics and gynecology (Ob-Gyn) residency training, particularly at faith-based institutions with moral and ethical constraints, although this aspect of the Ob-Gyn curriculum has not been formally studied to date.
Competence in evidence-based medicine (EBM) is an important clinical skill.
Pediatrics residents are expected to acquire competence in EBM during their education, yet few validated tools exist to assess residents' EBM skills.
Identifying constructive coping strategies and personal characteristics that protect residents against burnout may be helpful for reducing errors and improving physician satisfaction.
Studies across a range of specialties have consistently yielded positive associations between performance on in-training examinations and board certification examinations, supporting the use of the in-training examination as a valuable formative feedback tool for residents and residency programs.
That association to date, however, has not been tested in child and adolescent psychiatry residents.
Residents' ability to interpret statistics is important for scholarly pursuits and understanding evidence-based medicine.
Yet there is limited research assessing residents' statistical literacy and their training in statistics.
The graduate medical education community uses results from the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) to inform decisions about individuals' readiness for postgraduate training.
Rising costs pose a major threat to US health care.
Residency programs are being asked to teach residents how to provide cost-conscious medical care.
Self-directed learning (SDL) skills, such as self-reflection and goal setting, facilitate learning throughout a physician's career.
Handoff is the process in which patient care is transitioned from one provider to another.
In teaching hospitals, handoffs are frequent, and resident duty hour restrictions have increased the use of night float staff.
To date, few studies have focused on long-term sustainability and effectiveness of a handoff quality improvement project.
Integrating geriatric education (eg, delirium recognition) with inpatient quality improvement (QI) is not well tested.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) standards for resident education in anesthesiology mandate required rotations including rotations inside the operating room (OR).
When residents complete rotations outside the OR, other providers must be used to maintain the OR's clinical productivity.
Duty hour restrictions and enhanced focus on patient safety have prompted the development of new instruction models for practice of surgical techniques outside the operating room, including models for teaching loop electrosurgical excisional procedure (LEEP), a common procedure that gynecology residents perform to diagnose and manage cervical disease.
Resident attendance and participation at didactic conferences is often limited owing to time demands.
Most internal medicine (IM) residency programs provide ambulatory training in academic medical centers.
Community-based ambulatory training has been suggested to improve ambulatory and primary care education.
Morning report is accepted as an essential component of residency education throughout different parts of the world.
Communicating with patients has long been identified as an important physician competency.
More recently, there is a growing consensus regarding the components that define physician-patient communication.
There continues to be emphasis on both the need to teach and to assess the communication skills of physicians.
Effective communication during patient care transitions is essential for high-quality patient care.
Pediatrics residents are expected to demonstrate preparedness for neonatal resuscitation, yet research has shown gaps in residents' readiness to perform this skill.
Evidence-based medicine (EBM) has become an important part of residency education, yet many EBM curricula lack a valid and standardized tool to identify learners' prior knowledge and assess progress.
Academic medical centers play a major role in disaster response, and residents frequently serve as key resources in these situations.
Studies examining health care professionals' willingness to report for duty in mass casualty situations have varying response rates, and studies of emergency medicine (EM) residents' willingness to report for duty in disaster events and factors that affect these responses are lacking.
The educational milestones were designed as a criterion-based framework for assessing resident progression on the 6 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education competencies.
Since 1965, Medicare has publically financed graduate medical education (GME) in the United States.
Given public financing, various advisory groups have argued that GME should be more socially accountable.
Several efforts are underway to develop accountability measures for GME that could be tied to Medicare payments, but it is not clear how to measure or even define social accountability.
Duty hour limitations initiated by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) in 2003 could improve resident education in surgical specialties.
Whether cognitive and patient care skills attained during simulation-based mastery learning (SBML) are retained is largely unknown.
Education for all physicians should include specialty-specific geriatrics-related and chronic disease-related topics.
Portfolios are effective instruments for assessment of teaching skills among professional teachers and have recently been adapted in medical education.
However, scoring rubrics are needed to effectively guide assessors.
A lack of diversity among physicians is considered to be a major contributor.
The fellowship training program in cardiovascular medicine at The Ohio State University Medical Center had never trained a fellow from a minority group underrepresented in medicine (URM) before 2007.
Point-of-care ultrasound has emerged as a powerful diagnostic tool and is also being increasingly used by clinicians to guide procedures.
Many current and future internists desire training, yet no formal, multiple-application, program-wide teaching interventions have been described.
It has additionally emerged as a powerful instrument for point-of-care assessment by offering internists an opportunity to extend their traditional physical examination.
Residency interviews can place significant time and financial burdens on applicants.
Important components of fellowship training include learning teaching skills and career development.
Pulmonary and critical care medicine (PCCM) fellows' opinions of the importance of developing teaching skills and interest in careers in medical education have not been previously described, and there are no tools to assess interest in acquiring teaching skills.
Research suggests pediatrics practitioners lack confidence and skills in the end-of-life (EOL) care.
Thromboelastometry and point-of-care platelet aggregometry may improve hemostatic monitoring but have not been studied in the context of safety around epidural removal.
Mucinous cystadenoma of the liver is a rare (less than 5%) neoplasm.
This condition is more common in young women and accounts for non-specific symptoms.
Cyst adenomas commonly affect the intrahepatic system (90%) and are rarely found in the extrahepatic biliary system or affecting both the systems.
We investigated the analgesic effect of locally injected drugs around the total hip prosthesis.
Lumbar spinal stenosis is a common cause of radicular and generalized back pain among older adults.
Endoscopic minimally invasive surgery, in contrast to open decompression, may provide the opportunity for a less invasive surgical intervention.
The traditional method of treating displaced mid clavicular fractures with conservative methods gives poor results.
When there is displacement more than 2cm and shortening, internal fixation of the clavicle, when performed properly, gives better results.
The gram-negative organism, Burkholderia pseudomallei, is responsible for the disease melioidosis.
Septic arthritis and osteomyelitis due to B. pseudomallei are rare but recognised presentations of the disease.
We investigated the benefits and safety analgesic effect of locally injected drugs around the total knee prosthesis.
Virally-mediated tumours behave and respond to treatment differently than their classic, carcinogenically-mediated counterparts despite similar stage and grade of disease.
Health coaching is a client-centric process to increase motivation and self-efficacy that supports sustainable lifestyle behavior changes and active management of health conditions.
This study describes an intervention offered as a benefit to health plan members and examines health and behavioral outcomes of participants.
One such strategy, health and wellness coaching, has been inconsistently defined and shown mixed results.
The Building Interdisciplinary Research Careers in Women's Health (BIRCWH) program is a mentored institutional research career development program developed to support and foster the interdisciplinary research careers of men and women junior faculty in women's health and sex/gender factors.
A case report is a narrative that describes, for medical, scientific, or educational purposes, a medical problem experienced by one or more patients.
Case reports written without guidance from reporting standards are insufficiently rigorous to guide clinical practice or to inform clinical study design.
Women and adolescent girls bear a significant burden of the global HIV pandemic.
Both behavioral and biomedical prevention approaches have been shown to be effective.
In order to foster the most effective combination HIV-prevention approaches for women and girls, it is imperative to understand the unique biological, social, and structural considerations that increase vulnerability to acquiring HIV within this population.
Psychological and social impacts are common with many IBS-d patients reporting comorbid depression, anxiety, decreased intimacy, and lost working days.
There are numerous outcome instruments used for analyzing pain, disability, and dysfunction of the low back; perhaps the most common of these is the Oswestry disability index (ODI).
What is also unknown is whether selected baseline variables will be universal predictors regardless of the MCID used for a particular outcome measure.
CGH affects 22-25% of the adult population with females being four times more affected than men.
Currently, both invasive and non-invasive techniques are available to address these symptoms; however, the efficacy of non-invasive treatment techniques has yet to be established.
It is unclear if these changes can result from normal active ankle motion.
Recent randomized clinical trials data provide an indication of small therapist effects for manual therapy; however, the extent to which therapist effects exist in the average outpatient facility is not clear.
Moreover, patient-related prognostic factors, like fear-avoidance or pain duration, are important to consider since these may also influence the extent of therapist effects.
Coccydynia is the term used to describe pain in the coccygeal region.
Pain in this region is typically caused by local trauma.
Sitting is typically the most painful position for patients having coccydynia.
Various methods of treating coccydynia are found in the literature but to our knowledge no systematic review has been performed that compared the effectiveness of these interventions.
In this era of comparative effectiveness research, new, advanced techniques are being investigated by the research community to overcome the limitations of existing data sources.
Traditional Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) designs assume observations are collected using simple random sampling.
In this paper, we develop a general framework for designing the cluster(C)-LQAS system and illustrate the method with the design of data quality assessments for the community health worker program in Rwanda.
Elevated uric acid (UA) is commonly associated with gout and it is also a known cardiovascular disease risk factor.
In contrast to such deleterious effects, UA possesses neuroprotective properties in the brain and elucidating the molecular mechanisms involved may have significant value regarding the therapeutic treatment of neurodegenerative disease.
However, it is not yet fully established how UA levels are regulated in the brain.
In this study, we investigated the distribution of mouse urate transporter 1 (URAT1) in the brain.
URAT1 is a major reabsorptive urate transporter predominantly found in the kidney.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-19, an endocrine FGF protein mainly produced by the ileum, stimulates metabolic activity and alleviates obesity.
FGF19 modulates metabolism after either intravenous or intracerebroventricular injection, and its receptor FGFR4 is present in the hypothalamus.
This led to the question whether blood-borne FGF19 crosses the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to exert its metabolic effects.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) cardiac gated phase contrast (PC) cine techniques have non-invasively shown the effect of the cardiac pulse on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) movement.
Echo planar imaging (EPI) has shown CSF movement as influenced by both cardiac pulsation and respiration.
The present study was undertaken to do so.
Sound localization in small insects can be a challenging task due to physical constraints in deriving sufficiently large interaural intensity differences (IIDs) between both ears.
Sound acts on the external side of two tympana but additionally reaches the internal tympanal surface via two external sound entrances.
Conduction of internal sound is realized by the anatomical arrangement of connecting trachea.
Here we studied the morphological differences of the acoustic tracheal system in 40 cricket species (Gryllidae, Mogoplistidae) and species of outgroup taxa (Gryllotalpidae, Rhaphidophoridae, Gryllacrididae) of the suborder Ensifera comprising hearing and non hearing species.
Many free-ranging populations of these highly social mammals already face severe human disturbance, which is set to accelerate with projected anthropogenic environmental change.
It has been suggested that the 3D curvature of these maculae may also play an important role in hearing abilities in fishes.
We therefore set out to develop a fast and reliable approach for detailed 3D visualization of whole inner ears as well as maculae.
Regeneration is a widespread phenomenon in the animal kingdom, but the capacity to restore damaged or missing tissue varies greatly between different phyla and even within the same phylum.
However, the distantly related Acoelomorpha and Platyhelminthes share a strikingly similar stem-cell system and regenerative capacity.
Individuals should aim to adjust their parental behaviours in order to maximize the success of their offspring but minimize associated costs.
Plasticity in parental care is well documented from various bird, mammal and fish species, whereas amphibians were traditionally assumed as being highly instinct-bound.
Therefore, little is known about 'higher' cognitive abilities of amphibians, such as strategic planning and behavioural flexibility.
Dendrobatid frogs have evolved a remarkable diversity of parental behaviours.
The most noticeable of these behaviours is tadpole transport, which is obligatory in almost all species.
The monk parakeet (Myiopsitta monachus) is a widespread invasive species native to southern South America that has become established in many regions of the world.
Monk parakeets breed in a large, fully enclosed structure built from twigs, which consist of one to many individual brooding chambers.
The species has been considered to be socially and genetically monogamous.
However, genetic relatedness of adults to juveniles in the native area was found to be lower than expected for monogamy.
One of the most important decisions that an animal has to make in its life is choosing a mate.
Although most studies in sexual selection assume that mate choice is rational, this assumption has not been tested seriously.
A crucial component of rationality is that animals exhibit transitive choices: if an individual prefers option A over B, and B over C, then it also prefers A over C.
Due to its remarkable species diversity and micro-endemism, Madagascar has recently been suggested to serve as a biogeographic model region.
However, hypothesis-based tests of various diversification mechanisms that have been proposed for the evolution of the island's micro-endemic lineages are still limited.
Here, we test the fit of several diversification hypotheses with new data on the broadly distributed genus Eulemur using coalescent-based phylogeographic analyses.
Here, the vast majority of HIV-positive patients have been infected since infancy and have been receiving HAART treatment for at least ten years.
Community based interventions have long been linked to tuberculosis control efforts.
Effectively treated and cured patients living within their home communities are often the best advocates and may become the drivers of social mobilization to support control of tuberculosis.
The major role of rotavirus as causative agent is not widely recognized within the public health community, particularly in developing countries.
Many Romanian children were infected nosocomially with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the late 1980s.
The Romanian-American Children's Center of Excellence in Constana continues to follow approximately 450 of these patients.
In 2001, 414 of these patients were initiated on triple therapy including lopinavir/ritonavir.
The objective of the study was to determine the long-term clinical outcomes of children and adolescents commenced on antiretroviral therapy (ART) including lopinavir/ritonavir.
Consanguinity has been associated with adverse health outcomes.
The objective of the present study was to assess the association between parental consanguinity and risk of infection with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1).
Digital forms of direct-to-consumer pharmaceutical marketing (eDTCA) have globalized in an era of free and open information exchange.
These cybercriminal actors exploit available eDTCA mediums over the Internet to market their suspect products globally.
Despite these risks, a detailed assessment of the public health, patient safety, and cybersecurity threats and governance mechanisms to address them has not been conducted.
Rubella and cytomegalovirus (CMV) screening during pregnancy is routinely carried out in India.
However, its value has been questioned due to the absence of clearly effective intervention.
Acceptance of family planning methods varies within and between societies and there are many factors which are responsible for such variation at community, family and individual level.
Socioeconomic environment, culture and education are few of them that play a vital role.
Jammu and Kashmir state in general and Kashmir valley in particular is a Muslim-dominated population with traditionally a conservative society.
This study makes an attempt to assess the knowledge, attitude and practice of contraception in rural Kashmir.
Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT)s are suspected to induce pulmonary and pleural cancers due to their asbestos-like configurations.
Therefore, accurate measurement of inhaled nanotubes in target organs is crucial for assessing cancer risk.
Conventionally, nanotubes are measured after combustion at high temperature for conversion into CO2; however, the sensitivity is poor and the method lacks versatility.
We have therefore developed a novel approach using hybrid markers for nanotube analysis, featuring high sensitivity and the capacity to conduct repeated analyses.
In order to avoid proliferation of microorganisms, cleaning, disinfection and sterilisation in health centres is of utmost importance hence reducing exposure of workers to biological agents and of clients that attend these health centres to potential infections.
One of the most commonly-used chemical is glutaraldehyde.
The effects of its exposure are well known in the hospital setting; however there is very little information available with regards to the primary health care domain.
Unstable proximal femoral fractures are common and challenging for the orthopaedic surgeon.
The Synthes proximal femoral nail antirotation (PFNA) is unique because it is the only proximal femoral intramedullary nail which employs a helical blade in lieu of a lag screw.
The optimal tip-apex distance is 25 mm or less for a dynamic hip screw.
The optimal blade tip placement is not known for the PFNA.
Schizophrenia is a severe psychotic disorder characterized by significant disturbances in thinking, perception, emotions and behavior.
Even if it is not a very frequent disorder, but it is the most burdensome and costly illnesses worldwide.
The total population was approximate 1.3 billion and there are approximate 8 million schizophrenic patients in China.
Despite the wide-ranging financial and social burdens associated with schizophrenia, but there have been few cost-of-illness studies of this illness in China.
The International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD) and the American Diabetes Association (ADA) have established a hemoglobin A1c (A1c) target of less than 7.5% for adolescents with type 1 diabetes (T1D).
However, many adolescents are unaware of their A1c target, and little data exist on how knowledge of this A1c target affects the actual A1c they achieve.
We sought to evaluate the relationship between awareness of the A1c target and the actual A1c achieved in adolescents with T1D.
Along with the rise in obesity, cardiovascular disease (CVD) has become the major cause of death in developed countries.
Although overt coronary heart disease rarely manifests during childhood, atherosclerosis can begin by the second decade of life.
Therefore, identifying reliable risk markers of early vascular disease in childhood could be important.
Alteration in endothelial function (EF) is an early preclinical marker of the atherosclerotic process and can be assessed non-invasively using reactive hyperemia peripheral arterial tonometry (RH-PAT).
Without this knowledge common decontamination, sampling and DNA extraction techniques may be suboptimal.
We aimed to determine the location of cellular DNA in non-degraded human teeth to quantify the yield of nuclear DNA from cementum, the most accessible and easily sampled dental tissue, and to investigate the effect of a common decontamination method, treatment with sodium hypochlorite (bleach).We examined teeth histologically and subsequently quantified the yield of nuclear DNA from the cementum of 66 human third molar teeth.
We also explored the effects of bleach (at varying concentrations and exposure times) on nuclear DNA within teeth, using histological and quantitative PCR methods.
Intermittent treatment of acute lower acuity situations has come to be defined as urgent rather than emergent care.
The location of urgent care delivery has been shifting from exclusively hospital or office settings to other community locales.
Action research is a participatory research method based on active cooperation between researchers and subjects.
In clinical practice, action research enables active involvement of workers in developing and implementing actions promoting patient safety.
Musculoskeletal complaints are probably the most frequent reasons for visiting a doctor.
They comprise more than a quarter of the complaints to primary practitioners and are also the most common reason for referral to secondary or tertiary medicine.
The clinicians most frequently consulted on musculoskeletal problems, and probably perceived to know most on the topic are orthopaedic surgeons.
But in Israel, there is significant ambivalence with various aspects of the consultations provided by orthopaedic surgeons, both among the public and among various groups of clinicians, particularly family practitioners and physiotherapists.
The aim of the study is to identify which types of injuries are responsible for a major component of the health burden in a population-based children cohort in North-Eastern Italy.
RNA interference technology has shown high therapeutic potential for cancer treatment.
However, serum instability, poor tissue permeability and non-specific uptake of short interfering RNA (siRNA) limit its administration in vivo.
To overcome these limitations and improve the specificity for ovarian cancer, we developed a targeted nanoparticle delivery system for siRNA.
This system included follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)  33-53 peptide as a targeting moiety that specifically recognized FSH receptor (FSHR) expressed on ovarian cancer cells.
Growth regulated oncogene  (gro-) has been reported to be involved in ovarian cancer development and progression.
Thus, siRNA targeted to gro- was used as an antitumor drug in this delivery system.
Resistance to apoptosis is a major problem in ovarian cancer (OC) and correlates with poor prognosis.
Osteoprotegerin (OPG) is a soluble secreted factor that acts as a decoy receptor for receptor activator of NF-B ligand (RANKL) and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL).
OPG has been reported to attenuate TRAIL-induced apoptosis in a variety of cancer cells, including OC cells.
OPG-mediated protection against TRAIL has been attributed to its decoy receptor function.
However, OPG activates integrin/focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling in endothelial cells.
In OC cells, activation of integrin/FAK signaling inhibits TRAIL-induced apoptosis.
Based on these observations, we hypothesized that OPG could attenuate TRAIL-induced apoptosis in OC cells through integrin/FAK signaling.
Interaction with nature has a relaxing effect on humans.
Increasing attention has been focused on the therapeutic effects of urban green space; however, there is a lack of evidence-based field research.
This study provided scientific evidence supporting the physiological and psychological effects of walking on young males in urban parks in winter.
Limited time and funding are challenges to meeting the research requirement of the orthopedic residency curriculum.
Compliance with the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education duty hour standards may necessitate more frequent transitions of patient responsibility.
Despite widespread use of electronic health records (EHRs), it is unclear whether residents possess the EHR skills to perform required tasks.
Complications associated with dilation and evacuation (D&amp;E) have been directly related to provider skill level, yet no low-fidelity model has been formally described or evaluated in the literature for second-trimester D&amp;E training.
The outpatient continuity clinic is an essential component of internal medicine residency programs, yet continuity of patient care in these clinics is suboptimal.
Reasons for this discontinuity have been inadequately explored.
Public health training has become an important aspect of residency education.
All physicians should have basic knowledge of optimal outpatient care of older adults to enhance the capacity of the system to serve this patient group.
To date, there is no knowledge-assessment tool that focuses specifically on geriatric ambulatory care.
Care transitions are common and highly vulnerable times during illness.
Physicians need better training to improve care transitions.
Existing transitional care curricula infrequently involve settings outside of the hospital or other health care disciplines.
Patient death can be emotionally and psychologically stressful for clinicians, particularly clinicians in training.
Despite a mandate to teach quality improvement (QI) to residents, many training programs lack faculty capacity to deliver a QI curriculum.
Teaching practice-based learning and improvement and systems-based practice are challenging.
The aim of the study is to detect apoptosis in granular cell ameloblastoma by annexin v affinity assay, a novel technique.
Calretinin a 29-kDa calcium binding protein is expressed widely in normal human tissue and tumours including amelobastoma.
The objective of this study was to determine calretinin expression in heamatoxylin and eosin diagnosed cases of ameloblastoma and non-neoplastic odontogenic cysts.
Malocclusion should be identified at its earliest before it produces any detrimental effects.
The objective of this study is to evaluate the orthodontic status and treatment need of school children in Telangana region, Andhra Pradesh, using Dental Aesthetic Index.
E. faecalis is the predominant micro-organism recovered from root canal of the teeth where previous endodontic treatment has failed.
Thorough debridement and complete elimination of micro-organisms are objectives of an effective endodontic treatment.
For many years, intracanal irrigants have been used as an adjunct to enhance antimicrobial effect of cleaning and shaping in endodontics.
The constant increase in antibiotic-resistant strains and side-effects of synthetic drugs has promoted researchers to look for herbal alternatives.
For thousands of years humans have sought to fortify their health and cure various illnesses with herbal remedies, but only few have been tried and tested to withstand modern scientific scrutiny.
The present study was aimed to evaluate alternative, inexpensive simple and effective means of sanitization of the root canal systems.
The antimicrobial efficacy of herbal alternatives as endodontic irrigants is evaluated and compared with the standard irrigant sodium hypochlorite.
High or low cholesterol levels can be perturbing.
High cholesterol levels in the blood are associated with increased risk of coronary heart disease whereas insinuation of decreased cholesterol levels remains imprecise.
Present study is to evaluate any relationship between the serum lipid levels and the cancer.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the alteration of serum lipid profiles in untreated mucosal cancer patients.
The objective of the study is to evaluate patient's personal reasons and experience with orthodontic treatment.
Also to find the problems faced during the orthodontic procedure.
This study was undertaken to compare the retention between sectional border molding using low fusing greenstick compound and single step border molding using condensation silicone (putty) impression material in three stages- A.
Immediately following border molding, B.
After final impression and C. With the finished permanent denture base.
Surgical treatment of fracture mandible using an internal fixation has changed in the last decades to achieve the required rigidity, stability and immediate restoration of function.
Aim of the study was to compare 4 different methods of sterilizing endodontic files in dental practice.
Many low and middle income countries lack the human resources needed to deliver essential health interventions.
Although the recommended nurse to doctor ratio is 4:1, the ratio in Pakistan is reversed, with 2.7 doctors to one nurse.
Cardiac myxoma is the most common benign intracardiac tumor.
We studied its clinical presentation, morbidity, mortality and recurrence following surgery over a period of 9 years.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), an endothelial mitogen, acts through VEGF receptors (VEGFRs) on the endothelial cells.
During neoplastic transformation, it is hypothesized that the tumor expresses VEGF and also acquire VEGF receptor, enabling VEGF action in an autocrine and paracrine manner with varied effects on the tumor growth and progression.
This report describes the experience of the Cure2Children Foundation (C2C) in supporting, both financially and professionally, the startup of two bone marrow transplant (BMT) centers, one in Pakistan and one in India, for the cure of transfusion-dependent thalassemia.
Worldwide, breast cancer is most common cancer among women.
In India and other developing countries, breast carcinoma ranks second only to cervical carcinoma among women.
Although studies have been done globally, to find association between BMI and breast cancer, very few studies in India document any such association.
With advancements in imaging, wide variations in pelvic anatomy have been observed, thus raising doubts about adequate target volume coverage by conventional external radiotherapy fields based on bony landmarks.
Standard treatment of advanced cervical cancer is concurrent chemoradiation.
Management of patients who are suboptimally treated, especially, after unsuccessful ICBT insertion is not well-defined.
This study explores the role of hysterectomy in these patients.
Quid chewing practice has been a part of our tradition since centuries with little known evidence of oral cancer.
Ascorbic acid is an important salivary antioxidant.
Betel leaf which is used in quid is known to contain ascorbic acid.
Lipids are major cell membrane components essential for various biological functions including cell growth and division of normal and malignant tissue.
They are also required for maintenance of structural and functional integrity of all biological membranes.
Alteration in the plasma lipid profile has been associated with a variety of cancers and precancerous conditions including those of the head and neck region.
Solid pseudopapillary tumor of the pancreas (SPT) is a rare tumor of low malignant potential, mostly described in young women.
Improvements of surgical technique, increased surgical experience and advances in anesthesia, intensive care and parenteral nutrition have substantially decreased surgical complications and increased survival.
Although Elizabethkingia meningoseptica (Chryseobacterium meningosepticum) infections in immunocompromised hosts have been recognised, clinical data detailing these infections remain limited, especially from India.
Antimicrobial susceptibility data on E. meningoseptica remain very limited, with no established breakpoints by Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI).
The organism is usually multidrug resistant to antibiotics usually prescribed for treating Gram-negative bacterial infections, a serious challenge to the patient and the treating clinicians.
This single center retrospective analysis was undertaken to identify the incidence, clinical impact, and prognostic factors for mortality associated with fungal blood stream infections (BSI) in cancer patients.
The goals in the treatment of rectal cancer are cure, local control, and preservation of sphincter, bladder and sexual function.
Surgical resection using sharp mesorectal dissection is important for achieving these goals.
The management of locally advanced (Stage IIb and III) breast cancer is challenging.
It often includes multimodal treatment with systemic therapy and/or radiation therapy and surgery.
Immediate breast reconstruction has not traditionally been performed in these patients.
Secondary central nervous system (CNS) tumors are common in Western countries, but in Indian literature, scant data are available.
With the advent of newer imaging techniques, the confirmatory histopathological diagnosis has become comparatively easier.
Salivary gland lesions, especially the neoplastic lesions constitute a highly heterogeneous histopathologic group.
Recent years have witnessed significant development in the use of immunohistochemistry in diagnostic ovarian pathology.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) constitutes around 3% of leukemia in the children and adolescent age group.
Human tuberculosis (TB), a chronic inflammatory disease is caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a facultative intramacrophage pathogen.
The highly complex interactions between mycobacteria and macrophages (Ms), characterized in part by the induction and elaboration of several cytokines including IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12 p40 and IL-12 p70 are not yet fully understood.
The cytokines are known to have important bearing on the pathogenesis and host defense during TB.
Lucanidae) remains challenging, mainly due to the sexual dimorphism and the strong allometry in males.
Such conjecture confounds taxonomic based conservation efforts that are urgently needed due to numerous threats to stag beetle biodiversity.
We investigated the potential use of a 670 bp region at the 3' end of the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene (COI) for barcoding purposes (different from the standard COI barcoding region).
Well resolved species and subspecies were L. tetraodon, L. cervusakbesianus, L. c. laticornis, as well as the two eastern Asian outgroup taxa L. formosanus and L. hermani.
Conversely, certain taxa could not be distinguished from each other based on K2P-distances and tree topologies: L. c. fabiani / L. (P.) barbarossa, L. c. judaicus / an unknown Lucanus species, L. c. cervus / L. c. turcicus / L. c. pentaphyllus / L. (P.) macrophyllus / L. ibericus.
The relative roles of phenotypic plasticity, recurrent hybridisation and incomplete lineage sorting underlying taxonomic and phylogenetic discordances are discussed.
Cleroidea) is reviewed to species level.
Keys to its genera, tribes and subfamilies are presented for the first time.
All known species and subspecies are listed, together with complete taxonomic references back to 1910, the date of issue of the last catalogue of Trogossitidae.
Higher taxa reviews are accompanied by remarks on phylogeny, distribution and biology as well as a brief description of adults and larvae.
The work includes maps of distribution, colour photographs of generic representatives, morphological illustrations, SEM photographs and phylogenetic trees.
One of the major challenges in the neuromuscular field has been lack of upper extremity outcome measures that can be useful for clinical therapeutic efficacy studies.
Using vision-based sensor system and customized software, 3-dimensional (3D) upper extremity motion analysis can reconstruct a reachable workspace as a valid, reliable and sensitive outcome measure in various neuromuscular conditions where proximal upper extremity range of motion and function is impaired.
&lt;b&gt;
&lt;/b&gt; Hurricane Isaac made landfall in southeastern Louisiana in late August 2012, resulting in extensive storm surge and inland flooding.
Both traditional and non-traditional data have been used to improve situational awareness in fields like disease surveillance and seismology.
&lt;b&gt;
Development of CM is universal in boys with DMD.
ACE-I and ARB have both been suggested as effective treatment options.
ARBs have been associated with skeletal muscle regeneration in a mouse model of DMD.
The question of which, if either, is more effective for CM treatment in DMD remains.
The purpose of this multicenter double-blind prospective study was to compare efficacy and safety of lisinopril versus losartan in the treatment of newly diagnosed CM in boys with DMD.
The container breeding species belonging to the genus Aedes (Meigen) are frequently recorded out of their place of origin.
Invasive Aedes species are proven or potential vectors of important Arboviruses and their establishment in new areas pose a threat for human and animal health.
A new species of exotic mosquito was recorded in 2011 in north-eastern Italy: Aedes (Finlaya) koreicus [Hulecoeteomyia koreica].
The aim of this study was to characterize the biology, the environment and the current distribution of this mosquito in north-eastern Italy.
Morphological details useful to discriminate this species from other invasive Aedes mosquitoes are also given (see Additional files).
The "5 A's" is considered the standard of care worldwide; however, it is under used in Argentina and Uruguay.
C. elegans mitochondrial (Mit) mutants have disrupted mitochondrial electron transport chain function, yet, surprisingly, they are often long-lived, a property that has offered unique insights into the molecular mechanisms of aging.
In this study, we examine the phenotypic consequences of reducing the expression of the respiratory chain complex assembly factors sft-1 (homologous to human SURF1) and oxa-1 (homologous to human OXA1) by RNA interference (RNAi).
Mutations in human SURF1 are associated with Leigh syndrome, a neurodegenerative condition of the brain caused by cytochrome oxidase (COX) deficiency.
Both SURF1 and OXA1 are integral proteins of the inner mitochondrial membrane, functioning in the COX assembly pathway.
Obesity is a health problem that is reaching epidemic proportions worldwide.
We investigated the effects of a life-long high saturated fat and low carbohydrate (HF) diet on the body mass, glucose tolerance, cognitive performance and lifespan of mice.
Muscle biopsies were obtained from the vastus lateralis of young trained (22  3 years, n = 6), young untrained (24  4 years, n = 6), old trained (64  3 years, n = 6) and old untrained (65  6 years, n = 6) healthy males before, immediately after and three days following a high-intensity interval exercise bout.
The aim of our study was to determine whether life-long spontaneous aerobic exercise affects lifespan and healthspan in mice.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common joint disorder in the world and represents the leading cause of pain and disability in the elderly population.
Advancing age remains the single greatest risk factor for OA.
Male Dunkin Hartley guinea pigs (N=24) were group housed with free access to standard guinea pig chow and water.
At 2, 3, 5 and 7months of age, six animals were selected based on their proximity to the median weight of the cohort.
OA severity was graded at each time point by the assessment of toluidine blue stained step coronal sections of the total knee joint.
Serum CTX II was measured as a potential biomarker of OA severity.
Oxidative and glycolytic potential was determined in quadriceps homogenates via the measurement of ICDH and LDH activity.
Caloric restriction is known to extend the lifespan of all organisms in which it has been tested.
Consequently, current research is investigating the role of various foods to improve health and lifespan.
The role of various diets has received less attention however, and in some cases may have more capacity to improve health and longevity than specific foods alone.
We examined the benefits to longevity of a low glycaemic index (GI) diet in aged Balb/c mice and examined markers of oxidative stress and subsequent effects on telomere dynamics.
This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of rhizome powder from the herb Rhodiola rosea, a traditional Western Ukraine medicinal adaptogen, on lifespan and age-related physiological functions of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster.
Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia (FCOD) is a benign jaw lesion originating from periodontal ligament tissues usually asymptomatic and diagnosed accidentally at routine dental radiographic examination.
The purpose of this paper is to report three cases diagnosed as FCOD with their clinical, radiographic and histological findings.
National Institutes of Health.
National Institutes of Health, BASF, Pfizer, and DSM Nutritional Products.
The Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development, and the NutsOhra Fund.
Both groups were stratified according to BMI.
Specific psychological parameters and hormones were estimated in all patients.
Commonly used sexual function measures are limited and fail to account for pregnancy or birth in assessment of function.
Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is the preferred surgical treatment for end-stage osteoarthritis.
Consequently, it is important to identify which patient characteristics are predictive of outcomes in order to guide clinical decisions.
Our hypothesis is that preoperative patient-reported outcome measures and radiographic measures may help to predict TKA outcomes.
Orthotic interventions for knee osteoarthritis (OA) aim to reduce mechanical loading on the medial compartment of the knee and may lessen the lateral trunk lean as the most important compensatory gait strategy.
The lateral wedge insole is a known orthotic intervention for knee OA.
Compliance and implementation of infection control guidelines have been recognized as efficient means to prevent and control hospital acquired infections.
Radiofrequency catheter ablation is an emerging curative modality of treatment for several types of cardiac arrhythmias.
The aim of our study was to evaluate our experience of electrophysiology procedures over a 10-year-period and compare it with the published literature.
Stapled hemorrhoidopexy is gaining popularity as a relatively painless alternative to conventional excisional hemorrhoidectomy.
The initial experience from a service hospital is presented along with review of literature.
Healthcare associated infections (HAI) have taken on a new dimension with outbreaks of increasingly resistant organisms becoming common.
Medical management of an unruptured ectopic pregnancy with intramuscular methotrexate is a common and cost-effective alternative to surgery.
Pregnant women are at risk to develop complications due to illness related to pregnancy or due to aggravation of pre-existing disease.
These patients also require critical care and ICU admissions in some cases.
To determine the current spectrum of diseases in an obstetric population resulting in admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) at a tertiary care hospital.
Adolescence is a period when the individual is vulnerable and exposure to sexually implicit/explicit programs on television and internet can influence their sexual behaviour and make them more permissive towards premarital sex, which is known to influence their academic performance.
This can be modified by parental discussion on these matters with their children.
There have been only few studies from India that have explored such issues therefore this study aimed to explore the impact of television, internet and parental discussion on sexual activity and academic performance.
Enzymatic debridement is a method by which burn wounds can be prepared for coverage by skin grafts in patients presenting late.
Many agents have been used in the past but none of them have been thoroughly evaluated.
The present study was undertaken to assess the efficacy of Debridace, a commonly available debriding agent with papain and urea as its constituents.
This study evaluates the efficiency of fibrin glue as compared to sutures in attaching the conjunctival autograft with reference to surgical time, post operative comfort and recurrence during follow up.
Stunting is a consequence of long term, cumulative inadequacies of health and nutrition.
Health system uses underweight for growth monitoring for its simplicity.
Lately there is renewed interest in stunting and especially severe acute malnutrition.
Stunting is a relatively neglected indicator.
Hence, the present study was undertaken to study the social determinants of stunting in rural Wardha.
The risk during pregnancy varies from 20 to 45% and with specific interventions in mother and baby; it can be reduced to less than 2%.
This study was conducted to assess the efficacy of comprehensive PPTCT programme.
The present study correlated both with conventional histomorphologic prognostic markers and proliferative index in diffusely infiltrating gliomas (DIG).
hypothyroidism and hypoadrenalism.
Down syndrome (DS) is a common chromosomal abnormality associated with congenital heart disease (CHD).
These cardiac abnormalities are known to be associated with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
Early, sensitive and specific diagnosis is paramount for clinical decision making.
Currently available diagnostic tests are limited in scope and utility.
This study highlights applicability of RT-LAMP in dengue diagnosis.
During recent outbreak of dengue fever in Delhi, there has been a significant increase in dengue-associated admission in hospitals.
To better understand the pathology of dengue haemorrhagic fever, we conducted autopsies of dengue infections deaths within our hospital.
A non-randomized, interventional study was carried out various types of retinal venous occlusions with significant macular edema who required an Anti-VEGF injection.
Human parvovirus B19 is an emerging transfusion transmitted infection.
Although parvovirus B19 infection is connected with severe complications in some recipients, donor screening is not yet mandatory.
To reduce the risk of contamination, plasma-pool screening and exclusion of highly viraemic donations are recommended.
Haematological abnormalities are among the most common complications of HIV.
Bone marrow studies form integral part ofcomplete workup of the HIV positive patients specially when they present as case of pyrexia of unknown origin (PUO), refractory anaemia and pancytopenia.
Bronchopleural fistula (BPF) is a communication in the form of a sinus tract between the pleural space and the bronchial tree.
Chronic bronchopleural fistula (BPF) is a rare but a serious complication of several pulmonary and postoperative conditions.
BPF carries a high morbidity and mortality and is associated with prolonged hospital stay and thus high resource consumption.
Till date surgical intervention has been the main stay of management of chronic BPF.
Our study was carried out to study the efficacy of sealants like Bioglue, Tissel glue and endobronchial devices like coils to close the BPFs through bronchoscopic interventions in those cases which failed to close with the conventional treatment regimen and progressed to chronicity.
The Rh system is the major blood group system besides ABO system.
Even after proper blood grouping and cross matching there is a possibility of alloimmunization and antibody production in the recipients against the Rh or minor blood group antigens like Kell, MNSs, Duffy etc.
It is often said that doctors are only human.
However, technological wonders, apparent precision of diagnostic tests and scientific innovation have created an expectation of perfection from medical science.
Tuberculosis (TB), declared a global emergency in 1993 by the WHO, remains a worldwide public health problem.
Rapid diagnosis is required for treatment and prevention.
This study compares genotypic methods using two gene targets [IS6110 and 'short fragment' devR (Rv3133c)] with phenotypic methods [Lowenstein Jensen (LJ) and BACTEC 460] for the diagnosis of TB while using Ziehl Neelsen (ZN) staining as the gold standard.
Strategic blood reserves are an important component in meeting blood needs and this can be accomplished through the establishment of a frozen blood program.
In view of the contemporary relevance of BMW Management, a system analysis of BMW management was conducted to ascertain the views of Service hospitals/HCE's on the current system in BMW management in-vogue; to know the composition and quantity of waste generated; to get information on equipment held &amp; equipment required and to explore the possibility of outsourcing, its relevance and feasibility.
With no conclusive treatment available to enhance fertility in these women, it is the use of donor eggs with In-Vitro Fertilization (IVF) which can fulfil their desire to become a mother in a novel way.
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in POF apart from correcting the endocrine defect also helps in improving the milieu of the uterus by improving its vascularisation and the sub endometrial blood flow.
The structured labor analgesia programme in our tertiary care hospital has been in place for the past few years.
However patient selection is of utmost importance to achieve optimum results.
To review the overall oral health using DMFT index and to evaluate any relation between increased DMFT index to existing orthodontic problems.
An outbreak of food poisoning was reported from a Military establishment on 29 May 2011 when 43 cases of food poisoning reported sick in a span of few hours.
Even today, use of Glass Ionomer Cements (GIC) as restorative material is indicated for uncooperative patients.
Most are either unaware or do not pay adequate attention to these symptoms.
ASA is a key function of auditory system, and contributes to speech discrimination in noisy backgrounds.
Osteoid osteomas account for approximately 2- 3% of all primary bone neoplasm's sampled for biopsy.
50% of all of them occur in the long bones of the lower extremities, but osteoid osteoma of the coracoid process is rare.
We have found only nine previously reported cases of coracoid osteoid osteoma in the international literature.
We report a child with coracoid base osteoid osteoma.
Evidence-based medicine would come to the result by evidence-based implementation.
Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) as one of the evidence-based knowledge products requires appropriate interventions after being produced to be applied.
Pediatric patients may be at an increased risk of adverse effects from various medications.
Physical inactivity is a major risk factor and aerobic exercise is protective for cardiovascular health.
THE FOLLOWING INFLAMMATORY MARKERS WERE CHOSEN: CRP, TNF-, and IL-6.
CD4(+) T cell activation indicators have been reported to be a common phenomenon underlying diverse manifestations of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS).
Therefore, we investigated whether CD8(+) T cells from patients who develop TB IRIS were specifically activated.
To investigate the effect of Ubiquinol supplementation on physical performance measured as maximum power output in young and healthy elite trained athletes.
Chronic supplementation with creatine monohydrate has been shown to promote increases in total intramuscular creatine, phosphocreatine, skeletal muscle mass, lean body mass and muscle fiber size.
Furthermore, there is robust evidence that muscular strength and power will also increase after supplementing with creatine.
Artistic Gymnastics is a sport where athletes are frequently fatigued.
Anatabine (ANA), a minor tobacco alkaloid found in the Solanaceae family of plants, may exhibit anti-inflammatory activity, which may be useful to aid in recovery from exercise-induced muscle damage.
The purpose of this study, therefore, was to examine the effects of ANA supplementation on the recovery of isometric strength and selected non-invasive indicators of muscle damage.
Post-workout nutrient timing and macronutrient selection are essential for recovery, glycogen replenishment and muscle protein synthesis (MPS).
Sodium ingestion during exercise may exert beneficial effects on endurance performance by either its ability to attenuate the decrease in plasma volume or reduce the risk of Exercise Associated Hyponatremia (EAH).
Citrus flavonoids, such as hesperidin, have shown therapeutic properties that improve hyperglycemia and insulin resistance, and decrease blood serum lipids and inflammation.
The current investigation studied the effects of hesperidin supplementation associated with continuous and interval swimming on the biochemical parameters (glucose, cholesterol and triglycerides), and oxidative stress markers (TBARS and DPPH) in rats.
The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy of introducing a fish protein hydrolysate (PEP) concurrently with carbohydrate (CHO) and whey protein (PRO) on endurance exercise metabolism and performance.
Recent data have suggested that a close homologue of Tks5, Tks4, is implicated in the EGF signaling.
Minocycline is a tetracycline derivative that readily crosses the blood brain barrier and appears to have beneficial effects on neuroinflammation, microglial activation and neuroprotection in a variety of neurological disorders.
Both microglial activation and neuroinflammation have been reported to be associated with autism.
In France, pre-employment screening for tuberculosis (TB) is performed for healthcare workers (HCW).
Screening is repeated when exposure to TB patients or infectious material occurs.
A recent study demonstrates that inhalation of airborne particulate from Mount Etna eruptions may induce fibrotic lung disease.
The occupational exposure of construction workers from the Etna area, who excavate building sites and use basalt dust to make mortar, has never been assessed.
Oocyte in vitro maturation (IVM) and cryopreservation at the time of routine ovarian tissue freezing may be offered to cancer patients as an additional option for fertility preservation.
This study aimed to investigate the developmental capacity of oocytes isolated from unstimulated ovaries.
It has already been found that very small embyronic-like stem cells (VSELs) are present in adult human tissues and organs.
Young cancer patients increasingly request fertility sparing alternatives to their cancer treatments, which they should be offered when allowed so by the risk-benefit balance and after obtaining informed consent.
Although Akt activation is believed to be a determinant in chemoresistance in ovarian cancer, whether Akt plays a role in regulating the effectiveness of PRIMA-1 in sensitizing chemoresistant ovarian cancer cells with p53 mutation to cisplatin (CDDP), remains to be determined.
We have earlier reported that follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) modulates ovarian stem cells which include pluripotent, very small embryonic-like stem cells (VSELs) and their immediate descendants 'progenitors' termed ovarian germ stem cells (OGSCs), lodged in adult mammalian ovarian surface epithelium (OSE).
FSH may exert pleiotropic actions through its alternatively spliced receptor isoforms.
Four isoforms of FSH receptors (FSHR) are reported in literature of which FSH-R1 and FSH-R3 have biological activity.
Present study was undertaken to identify FSHR isoforms mediating FSH action on ovarian stem cells, using sheep OSE cells culture as the study model.
To develop a minimally invasive ovarian cauterization technique under transvaginal ultrasound control and evaluate the safety and feasability of monopolar cauterization to cause ovarian injury using female cattle of reproductive age as an experimental model.
The early hemodynamic normalization of polytrauma patients may lead to better survival outcomes.
Thus, there is a paucity of information regarding both the beneficial therapeutic effects as well as the side effects of H2 on acute cerebral ischemia in humans.
Van der Woude syndrome is the most common among syndromes which include cleft lip and/or cleft palate as one of the presentations.
It is usually caused by mutations in the interferon regulatory factor 6 (IRF6) gene.
Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is an infection often occurring in neutropenic patients and has high mortality rates.
Fructose produces hepatic insulin resistance in humans and animals.
We have proposed that the selective metabolism of fructose by the liver can, under conditions of elevated fructose delivery, inflict a metabolic insult that is localized to the hepatocyte.
The present study was designed to identify potential cellular effectors of this insult.
In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that carnitine supplementation counteracts obesity-induced muscle fiber transition from type I to type II.
Disorders such as the metabolic syndrome (MetS), impaired glucose tolerance and diabetes, are associated with increased risk of cognitive decline.
Also several of the individual key features that define the MetS, e.g.
hypertension, impaired glucose regulation, dyslipidemia, obesity, and inflammation, are related to an increased risk of cognitive decline.
Consequently, a diet that prevents metabolic disorders might be expected to prevent cognitive decline.
The purpose of the present study was to, in overweight but otherwise healthy subjects, investigate effects on cognitive functions of a dietary regime combining multiple functional concepts potentially beneficial to risk markers associated with MetS.
The conjugated linoleic acid isomer cis9trans11 CLA can be endogenously synthesized from trans vaccenic acid (C18:1t11) via desaturation at the delta 9 position catalyzed by the stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), also known as delta-9 desaturase (D9D).
Diet, hormonal regulation of gene expression and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been implicated in altering circulating levels of fatty acids.
Hormonal contraceptives (HC) have also been shown to influence levels of some fatty acids.
Herein, we investigated the effects of sex and HC use on circulating concentrations of c9t11 CLA and D9D desaturation index.
Furthermore, we determined the effects of ten SCD1 SNPs on D9D desaturation indices estimated by product to precursor ratio of c9t11 CLA to C18:1t11.
It is increasingly being realized that failure of pancreatic beta cells to secrete enough insulin to adequately compensate for obesity and insulin resistance is the primary defects of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
ER stress-induced pancreatic beta-cell failure is a novel event in the pathogenesis of T2DM.
Some studies with antioxidants indicated a beneficial impact on ER stress.
Our previous study found that strong antioxidants, grape seed proanthocyanidins (GSPs), ameliorated ER stress to protect skeletal muscle from cell death in type 2 diabetic rats.
The present study continued to investigate the effect of GSPs on beta-cell failure and ER stress in diabetic pancreas.
The human diet has altered markedly during the past four decades, with the introduction of Trans hydrogenated fat, which extended the shelf-life of dietary oils and promoted a dramatic increase in elaidic acid (Trans-18.1) consumption.
Food additives such as monosodium glutamate (MSG) and aspartame (ASP) were introduced to increase food palatability and reduce caloric intake.
Nutrigenomics studies in small-animal models are an established platform for analyzing the interactions between various macro- and micronutrients.
In liver surgery, appropriate preoperative evaluation and preparation of the patient is of cardinal importance.
The up-to-date, preoperative prediction of residual liver function has thus far been limited.
As post-hepatectomy liver failure is a major cause of mortality, a new and simple bedside test (LiMAx) has been developed to predict postoperative liver function in conjunction with preoperative volumetric analysis of the liver.
Thoracic and extremity injuries are common in polytraumatized patients.
The clavicle limits the upper thoracic cage and connects the body and upper extremities.
It is easy to examine and is visible on standard emergency room radiographs.
We hypothesize that clavicular fracture in polytrauma patients indicates the presence of further injuries of the upper extremities, head, neck and thorax.
Pseudoaneurysm of superior lateral genicular artery following total knee arthroplasty is a rare complication and has been reported following lateral release performed for eversion of patella in a knee with tight lateral structures.
Operative treatment of acromioclavicular joint injuries is recommended for higher degree dislocations.
Recently a new option has become available with the minimally-invasive tight rope technique.
Whereas clinical studies justify the medical use, risks and benefits remain unclear.
Therefore, this study analyzed these facts associated with this procedure and compared them to K-wire fixation.
The aim of this retrospective cross-sectional study was to create age related percentiles for unassisted maximal mouth opening capacity (MOC) of healthy children.
HPV vaccine is safe and effective in healthy females aged 9-26years.
There are limited data on the safety and immunogenicity of HPV vaccine in females with SLE, and none in adolescents with SLE.
Idiopathic juvenile osteoporosis (IJO) is a rare condition of poorly understood etiology and pathophysiology that affects otherwise healthy children.
This condition is characterized clinically by bone pain and vertebral fractures; spontaneous recovery is observed after puberty in the majority of cases.
The initial symptoms of childhood leukaemia and lymphoma are often similar to those of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA).
However, their physiological functions in plants have not been fully understood to date.
Endogenous BRs in plant tissue are extremely low and the elucidation of BRs functions relies on sensitive detection method.
Reported methods for the determination of BRs required large amount of plant tissue, tedious pretreatment process, and were lack of selectivity.
Therefore, development of a simple and selective method for the sensitive quantification of BRs is highly needed.
In a new method, exudate volume was calculated from optical measurement of droplet diameter as it forms on the tip of a severed aphid stylet.
In contrast, measuring the exudate volume from optical measurement of droplet-diameter as formed on the tip of a severed aphid stylet, removes any inaccuracies due to oil surface curvature.
A modified technique is proposed for measuring exudate volumes without oil by estimating the flow rate from photo-sequences of the collection period; a correction for evaporation is applied later.
Plant extracts are a reservoir of pharmacologically active substances; however, conventional analytical methods can analyze only a small portion of an extract.
Here, we report a high-throughput analytical method capable of determining most phytochemicals in a plant extract and of providing their molecular formulae from a single experiment using ultra-high-resolution electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (UHR ESI MS).
UHR mass profiling was used to analyze natural compounds in a 70% ethanol ginseng extract, which was directly infused into a 15T Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance (FT-ICR) mass spectrometer for less than 10min without a separation process.
Although the relationship between self-rated health (SRH) and physical and mental health is well documented in developed countries, very few studies have analyzed this association in the developing world, particularly in Africa.
Obesity and physical inactivity are associated with several chronic conditions, increased medical care costs, and premature death.
With respect to social, cognitive, and physical aspects for patients and families, dementia is especially burdensome.
In Germany, like in many other countries, it is highly prevalent in the older population and imposes enormous efforts for caregivers and society.
Vigna mungo, a tropical leguminous plant, highly susceptible to yellow mosaic disease caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) resulting in high yield penalty.
The molecular events occurring during compatible and incompatible interactions between V. mungo and MYMIV pathosystem are yet to be explored.
In this study biochemical analyses in conjunction with proteomics of MYMIV-susceptible and -resistant V. mungo genotypes were executed to get an insight in the molecular events during compatible and incompatible plant-virus interactions.
Post treatment minimal residual disease (MRD) determination contributes to impending relapse prediction, chemotherapy response and clinical outcomes assessment, guiding clinicians to develop reasonable and effective individual chemotherapy options after induction/consolidation.
This study was to identify serum candidate peptides for monitoring adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) MRD.
A.BY/SnJ mice are used to study pathological alterations in the heart due to enteroviral infections.
The aim of this study is to compare compliance and satisfaction in hospitalization and out patient clinic protocols, at the initiation phase of brace treatment.
Spinal implants are occasionally removed due to infection or soft tissue irritation secondary to prominence.
Several studies have reported loss of scoliotic curve correction after implant removal.
The use of any form of tobacco by 13-15year old individuals is 10% globally as identified through the Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS).
This study aimed at assessing the prevalence and determinants of tobacco use among Iraqi adolescents.
Vascular endothelial growth factor-B (VEGF-B) protects against experimental stroke, but the effect of stroke on VEGF-B expression is uncertain.
Here we aimed to achieve angiogenic synergism between vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A, VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor 4 (FGF4) in murine normoperfused and ischemic limb muscles.
The implementation of a regionalised trauma system has been proved to significantly reduce the social impact of severe trauma on population.
A population-based registry may be useful to obtain reliable epidemiologic data.
The duodenum is the second seat of onset of diverticula after the colon.
Duodenal diverticulosis is usually asymptomatic, but duodenal perforation with abscess may occur.
Intestinal ischemia and reperfusion can impair anastomotic strength.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety of delayed colon anastomosis following remote ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury.
Hydatidosis is endemic in the Mediterranean region including morrocco, the Middle and Far East, Australia, New Zealand, and South America-all areas where animal husbandry is common.
Rupture into the abdominal cavity is a rare but serious complication of hydatid disease.
The cysts may be ruptured after a trauma, or spontaneously as a result of increased intracystic pressure.
Rupture of the hydatid cyst requires emergency surgical intervention.
It infrequently occurs that cytologic diagnosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) cannot be confirmed by histology after surgery.
This phenomenon may be a false-positive cytology or a true disappearing tumor.
There are conflicting reports on the impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in resolving hematological complications.
The relationship between diastolic dysfunction and P-wave dispersion (PWD) in the electrocardiogram has been studied for some time.
In this regard, echocardiography is emerging as a diagnostic tool to improve risk stratification for mild hypertension.
There are no established guidelines for selecting patients for early tracheostomy.
The aim was to determine the factors that could predict the possibility of intubation longer than 7 days in critically ill adult patients.
Although the psychological assessment of potential living kidney donors (PLKD) is part of the recommendations for action for any transplant coordination, there are not many studies that provide data about the importance of selecting donors for improving transplant outcomes.
Currently ocular combat injuries are complex and associated with poor visual outcomes.
While thyroid dysfunction is a frequent complication of lithium treatment, myxedema crisis is a rare occurrence with a handful of cases described.
In this patient, myxedema crisis was likely precipitated by lithium toxicity and community acquired pneumonia.
The effects of lithium on thyroid are briefly reviewed.
Klinefelter syndrome usually presents in the puberty and adulthood with its characteristic features.
We report a boy who had Klinefelter syndrome with hypospadias and hydrocele.
Six and half year old boy had complaints of genitourinary problem in the form of hypospadias, small phallus and hydrocele.
Karyotyping showed 47,XXY.
Given the increasing burden of dementia internationally and the lack of effective treatments, several countries are already recommending the use of ginkgo biloba extract (GbE) in the treatment of dementia, despite the inconsistent research results about its effectiveness.
Amenorrhea is a common adverse effect of treatment with antipsychotic medications that influences both fertility and adherence to medication regimens.
Most research suggests that medication-induced prolactinemia is the main cause of amenorrhea but few prospective studies have assessed this hypothesis.
Co-occurring cognitive impairment in geriatric depression may not improve with antidepressant treatment and it may progress to dementia.
Antipsychotic medications can cause an increase in blood glucose and the development of type II diabetes.
Metformin may ameliorate these side effects.
Childhood schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder that is believed to affect both conscious and unconscious cognitive functioning, but there have been few studies that have assessed this.
Although heart transplants have become more common, little is known about the psychological status of patients waiting for a heart transplant.
The recent adoption of China's new national mental health law provides a good opportunity to obtain baseline information about community mental health literacy in the country.
Memantine hydrochloride is a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist that may be useful in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Dementia is one of the most distressing and burdensome health problems associated with Parkinson's Disease (PD).
The Montreal Cognitive Assessment scale (MoCA) is widely used to screen for dementia in PD patients, but the appropriate diagnostic cutoff score when used with Chinese PD patients is not known.
However, results from studies about the GI mircobiome of such children have been inconsistent.
A valid screening tool for behavioral and emotional problems in children and adolescents is needed to promote psychological wellbeing and to prevent mental disorders in China's children.
Both cultural norms and service inadequacies may act as barriers to accessing needed mental health services.
Adoption of consistent behavioral habits in childhood takes place at home, with the parents especially the mother, being the primary model for behavior.
Photographs are symbolic of memories and with the advent of digital photography it has become much easier to collect them in a second in a more comprehensive and qualitative manner.
Technological advancements in the field of digital photography have revolutionized the concept of photography as a powerful medium of expression and communication.
It also offers a spectrum of perception, interpretation and execution.
Photography and dentistry go hand in hand for revelation of the hidden and overlooked defects in teeth and other parts of the cavity.
This article emphasizes on the significance of digital photography in dentistry and guidelines for capturing orofacial structures and radiographs in a more accurate and informative manner.
The key words were angiotensinogen or AGT, polymorphism or genetic and ischemic stroke or cerebral infarction.
Stroke presents as a transient or chronic brain dysfunction and is associated with high morbidity and high mortality.
The doctors and scientists would like to argue how to enhance the validity of the rehabilitation treatment and how to further improve the level of treatment on stroke.
Glioma is the most common intracranial tumor and has a poor patient prognosis.
The presence of brain tumor stem cells was gradually being understood and recognized, which might be beneficial for the treatment of glioma.
Acupuncture has been used as a treatment for cognitive impairment.
We retrieved publications from Cochrane Library (2004 to July 2011), PubMed (1966 to July 2011), the Chinese Science and Technique Journals Database (1977 to July 2011), the China National Knowledge Infrastructure (1979 to July 2011), Google Scholar (July 2011), and the Chinese Biomedical Database (1977 to July 2011) using the key words "Chinese medicine OR Chinese herbal medicine" and "vascular dementia OR mild cognition impair OR multi-infarct dementia OR small-vessel dementia OR strategic infarct dementia OR hypoperfusion dementia OR hemorrhagic dementia OR hereditary vascular dementia".
Neural regeneration following nerve injury is an emerging field that attracts extending interests all over the world.
(1) Neuronal synchronization underlies brain functioning, and it seems possible that blocking excessive synchronization in an epileptic neural network could reduce or even control seizures.
(2) Local field potential coupling is a very common phenomenon during synchronization in networks.
Interventions of coupling mediated by local field potentials could result in desynchronization of epileptic seizures.
(4) Manipulations of the field potential fluctuations could help block synchronization at seizure onset.
We report effectiveness of an HIV-prevention intervention delivered by community health workers (CHWs) in Mombasa, Kenya, to PLHIV who have not initiated or who have discontinued ART-an often difficult-to-reach population because they fall outside the ambit of health care and prevention services.
Uttar Pradesh (UP) is the most populous state in India with the second highest reported maternal mortality ratio in the country.
In an effort to analyze the reasons for maternal deaths and implement appropriate interventions, the Government of India introduced Maternal Death Review guidelines in 2010.
In 2009, the Government of Tanzania embarked on scaling up voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC) services for HIV prevention in 8 priority regions, with the aim of serving 2.8 million boys and men ages 10-34 years by 2013.
The majority (85%) of these VMMC clients were under 19 years old (average age, 16 years).
This study aimed to identify potential barriers and facilitators to VMMC among older men.
The Zambia Defence Force (ZDF) has applied the Standards-Based Management and Recognition (SBM-R) approach, which uses detailed performance standards, at some health facilities to improve HIV-related services offered to military personnel and surrounding civilian communities.
This study examines the effectiveness of the SBM-R approach in improving facility readiness and provider performance at ZDF facilities.
Access to electricity is critical to health care delivery and to the overarching goal of universal health coverage.
Data on electricity access in health care facilities are rarely collected and have never been reported systematically in a multi-country study.
We conducted a systematic review of available national data on electricity access in health care facilities in sub-Saharan Africa.
Short birth intervals are associated with increased risk of adverse maternal and neonatal health (MNH) outcomes.
In Sierra Leone, children ages 6-59 months receive twice-yearly vitamin A supplementation (VAS) through Maternal and Child Health Week (MCHW) events.
For many developing countries, obesity and its sequelae have become a challenge of a magnitude similar to hunger and undernutrition.
Timor-Leste's immunization coverage is among the poorest in Asia.
The city of Dili, the capital of Timor-Leste, had even lower coverage (43.4%) than the national urban average.
Attracting physicians to rural areas has been a long-standing challenge in India.
At PHCs without clinicians, paramedics provide clinical care, although they are not trained for this.
One way to fill this gap is for community health workers (CHWs) to provide injectable contraceptives, an intervention for which there is growing evidence and international support.
In 2009, with approval from the Government of Zambia (GoZ), FHI 360 collaborated with ChildFund Zambia to design and implement such an intervention as part of its existing CHW family planning program.
Female community health volunteers (FCHVs) are a possible entry point for Nepali women to access timely reproductive health services at the village level.
This evaluation assessed the success of a pilot program that trained FCHVs in early pregnancy detection using urine pregnancy tests (UPTs), counseling, and referral to appropriate antenatal, safe abortion, or family planning services.
In many countries, pregnancy tests are not freely available in family planning clinics.
As a result, providers sometimes deny services to non-menstruating clients due to uncertainty about pregnancy.
Few clients are actually pregnant, yet denied clients run the risk of becoming pregnant, and those sent to pharmacies pay inflated prices for inexpensive tests.
To assess the programmatic effect of free pregnancy testing, we conducted cluster-randomized trials in Ghana and Zambia, assessing clients' uptake of contraception in family planning clinics.
In rural areas of Kenya, where the majority of Kenya's population lives, contraceptive use remains low compared with that in urban areas (37% vs. 47%).
Community-based access to injectable contraceptives can improve access for rural populations and expand the range of contraceptive methods available.
Our pilot project sought to generate local evidence on safety, feasibility, and acceptability of the provision of injectable depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) by community health workers (CHWs).
Nurses have a considerable role in caring and health promotion.
Depressed nurses are deficient in their coping skills that are important in mental health.
This study evaluated the effectiveness of training problem-solving skills on coping skills of depressed nursing and midwifery students.
High levels of sound have several negative effects, such as noise-induced hearing loss and delayed growth and development, on premature infants in neonatal intensive care units (NICUs).
This study was performed to assess sound levels and determine sources of noise in the NICU of Alzahra Teaching Hospital (Tabriz, Iran).
Having an effective relationship with the patient in the process of treatment is essential.
Nurses must have communication skills in order to establish effective relationships with the patients.
It is deemed to have a discharge plan with the aim of decreasing rehospitalization, morbidity, and mortality.
The aim of this study was to explore and describe the professionals' efforts toward discharging the infants and their mothers from NICU.
Preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) can result in fetal complications such as oligohydramnios.
Hip fracture is common in the elderly.
Many studies support the positive short and long-term developmental care for premature infants.
This study aimed to determine the congruence of nurses' activity in four areas of developmental care in order to obtain basic information for authorities to provide a program to achieve related standards in the future.
Controlling over allergens and environmental irritants is one of the essential elements of controlling asthma.
Asthma control in adolescents is a challenge.
Paying attention to fathers as a major supporter for mothers is essential.
Therefore, the present study was conducted to evaluate anticipatory grief reactions among fathers with premature infants hospitalized in neonatal intensive care unit.
Fetal movement counting is a method used by mother to quantify her baby's movements.
Re-establishing breastfeeding (relactation) is necessary in preterm infants who are deprived of breastfeeding due to hospitalized in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU).
Although NICU nurses train mothers about breastfeeding and relactation to some degree, there exists a lack of support or evaluation for restarting breastfeeding.
The present study tried to determine the effects of an educational and supportive relactation program on weight gain of preterm infants.
Hot flash is considered to be an early and common symptom of menopause.
The present study aimed to determine the impact of black cohosh (Cimicifuga racemosa) on vasomotor symptoms in postmenopausal women.
The use of acupressure is growing.
Several studies have applied pressure to the P6 to reduce postoperative nausea, vomiting, and pain but have reported conflicting results.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of pressure to the P6 point on pain, nausea and vomiting after appendectomy.
Most women have experienced child birth and its pain, which is inevitable.
If this pain is not controlled it leads to prolonged labor and injury to the mother and fetus.
This study was conducted to identify the effect of acupressure on sanyinjiao and hugo points on delivery pain in nulliparous women.
The use of alternative therapies for the treatment of menopausal hot flashes has increased due to the serious risk of hormone therapy.
Most alternative therapies have not been accepted by women.
The aim of this study was to assess the effects of folic acid on menopausal hot flashes.
There are conflicting evidences about the effects of breastfeeding on postpartum maternal sexual functioning.
With regard to the methodological weaknesses of previous studies and cultural differences affecting their issue, the present study aims to evaluate sexual functions of lactating women and its components.
Postpartum depression is a common disorder.
Systematic reviews emphasized the need to conduct more trials about interventions to prevent postpartum depression.
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of postpartum telephone support on maternal depression.
In recent decades, nursing instructors have tended to use simulation rather than traditional methods due to benefits such as increased self-confidence.
However, little academic literature is available to verify this claim.
The procedure of establishing peripheral venous catheterization in pediatric patients is of great importance.
Therefore, the researchers attempted to review the effect of the simulation teaching method on nursing students' self-confidence related to peripheral venous catheterization in pediatric patients.
Any handover error can endanger patient safety.
Despite the importance of shift handover, there is no standard handover protocol in our healthcare settings.
The patients' families in intensive care units (ICUs) experience excessive stress which may disrupt their performance in daily life.
However, few studies have investigated the nursing empathy with ICU patients.
This study aimed to assess nursing empathy and its relationship with the needs, from the perspective of families of patients in ICU.
In fact, it changes all standardized nursing procedures and activities.
In addition, it tailored nursing activities with unique peculiarity of each patient.
Focusing on patient during care process is one main reason for supporting individualized care.
This research aimed to demonstrate patients' point of view about nurses' support of individualized care.
Endometrial biopsy is necessary for diagnosing the reason of abnormal uterine bleeding in perimenopausal women.
Using lidocaine is one of the procedures which is used for pain relief while biopsy.
This study is aimed at comparing the effect of different local anesthesia procedures on pain relief during endometrial biopsy.
Nursing profession requires knowledge of ethics to guide performance.
The nature of this profession necessitates ethical care more than routine care.
Today, worldwide definition of professional ethic code has been done based on human and ethical issues in the communication between nurse and patient.
To improve all dimensions of nursing, we need to respect ethic codes.
The aim of this study is to assess knowledge and performance about nursing ethic codes from nurses' and patients' perspective.
Health care delivery systems in rural areas face numerous challenges in meeting the community's needs.
This study aimed to describe barriers of health care process in rural societies in Iran.
Postpartum depression and its consequences not only involve mothers and their children but it will also affect their families.
Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effect of mothers receiving peer support on postpartum depression.
Increased bleeding is the most common cause of intrauterine device (IUD) removal.
The use of alternative therapies to treat bleeding has increased due to the complications of medications.
But most alternative therapies are not accepted by women.
Therefore, conducting studies to find the right treatment with fewer complications and being acceptable is necessary.
This study aimed to compare the effect of mefenamic acid and vitex agnus castus on IUD induced bleeding.
Several supportive programs are developed to reduce post discharge hospital readmissions.
Nurses' Caring behaviors might be affected by many variables.
The aim of this study was to develop and test a valid and reliable questionnaire to specify these determinants.
Episiotomy is used for enlarging the perineum.
Since the effect of their ointment on episiotomy healing has not been studied, this study is being done for determining the impact of Aloe vera and Calendula on episiotomy healing in primiparous women.
Infertility is the problem of 15% of young couples in different societies.
One of the factors that could affect fertility is oxidative stress.
Sleep Pattern and quality can affect life quality in old people.
We need more documents about footbath (a non-invasive method).
Nursing jobs are among the occupations experiencing high levels of stress.
Level of psychological well-being and coping style with stressful situations among nurses has large impact on their job performance.
Limited information exists about the relationship between coping styles and psychological well-being among nurses, so the present study examined the way of coping and the level of psychological well-being as well as their relationships among nurses.
Today in all aspects of health care, there is a considerable emphasis on the provision of patient centered care.
This study aimed to assess what are important for patient centered care in cancer wards.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a support group on the self-esteem of PWE.
Pharmacists play a key role while dispensing over-the-counter emergency contraception (EC) to the client.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a multiorgan disease that leads to neurovascular complications that disturb the normal erectile function.
Hormone replacement therapy is the only effective therapy but with known risks that leave unmet medical needs.
A new product, ZP-025 vaginal gel, containing purified (dialyzed lyophilized) bovine colostrum, has been developed for the treatment of vaginal dryness secondary to vaginal atrophy.
Vaginal atrophy, which may affect up to 45% of postmenopausal women, is often associated with one or more urinary symptoms, including urgency, increased frequency, nocturia, dysuria, incontinence, and recurrent urinary tract infection.
Pregnancy is a special period in a woman's life that involves physical and mental changes.
These changes are influenced by cultural, social, religious, and emotional factors among others.
Results from a previous study showed that sexuality was negatively affected in females with untreated obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).
Sexual disorders impact up to 43% of women.
However, the relationship between sexual dysfunction and psychological variables such as personality traits and coping mechanisms is not well understood.
Receptive anal intercourse can cause pain.
Little is known about this sexual dysfunction.
Capsular contraction (CC) occurring with inflatable penile prosthesis (IPP) reservoirs has been reported by urologists as a cause of autoinflation.
The concept of CC occurring around IPP cylinders has not been studied.
Very little research thus far has examined the decision making that underlies inappropriate social behavior (ISB) post-TBI (traumatic brain injury).
The main aim of these studies is to give a description of the neurocognitive "profile" of schizophrenia, with only little attention being paid to the common and discriminating features of different psychotic disorders.
Ninety-eight patients and 50 controls were studied.
Frequencies of correct and false attributions were recorded.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common human malignancies in the world, and its prognosis is generally poor.
Epigenetic alteration such as DNA methylation has been shown to be important in the development of human cancers including HCC.
Here, we analyzed the methylation status of ZAR1, which has been reported to be aberrantly methylated in a few human cancers.
We validated the prophylactic efficacy of MP pulse therapy by monitoring CH recurrence over several years following treatment of six consecutive male patients (mean age: 38.8 years, range: 26-54 years) afflicted by frequent (often daily) CH attacks.
In the past few years, dairy industry has become one of the fastest growing sectors in the packaged food industry of Vietnam.
However, the value-added creation among different activities in the value chain of Vietnam dairy sector is distributed unequally.
In the production activities, the dairy farmers gain low value-added rate due to high input cost.
Whereas the processing activities, which managed by big companies, generates high profitability and Vietnamese consumers seem to have few choices due to the lack of dairy companies in the market.
These wicked problems caused an unsustainable development to the dairy value chain of Vietnam.
This paper, therefore, will map and analyze the value chain of the dairy industry in Vietnam.
It will also assess the value created in each activity in order to imply solutions for a sustainable development of Vietnam's dairy industry.
M10, M11.
This study explores the short-run spillover effects of popular research papers.
We consider the publicity of 'Male Organ and Economic Growth: Does Size Matter?'
as an exogenous shock to economics discussion paper demand, a natural experiment of a sort.
In particular, we analyze how the very substantial visibility influenced the downloads of Helsinki Center of Economic Research discussion papers.
This study finds that the spillover effect to average economics paper demand is positive and statistically significant.
It seems that hit papers increase the exposure of previously less downloaded papers.
We find that part of the spillover effect could be attributable to Internet search engines' influence on browsing behavior.
Conforming to expected patterns, papers residing on the same web page as the hit paper evidence very significant increases in downloads which also supports the spillover thesis.
A11, C21.
97K80.
Patients are eligible if progressive disease (PD) after Folfiri-bevacizumab; ECOG PS 0-1.
Primary endpoint is the disease control rate (DCR:ORR plus stable disease &gt; 6 months); secondary endpoints: ORR, PFS, duration of response, OS and toxicity.
ORR and DCR were reported with their confidence interval at 95%.
Kaplan-Meier method was used for PFS and OS evaluation.
Computed tomography (CT)-guided lung biopsy is commonly used to make a histological diagnosis for pulmonary lesions.
Its most common complication is pneumothorax.
A Never Born protein is a theoretical protein which does not occur in nature.
The reason why some proteins were selected and some were not during evolution is not known.
Agile software development gains requirements from the direct discussion with customers and the development staff each time, and the customers evaluate the appropriateness of the requirement.
If the customers divide the complicated requirement into individual requirements, the engineer who is in charge of software development can understand it easily.
This is called division of requirement.
However, the customers do not understand how much and how to divide the requirements.
Cluster headache is a primary headache by definition not caused by any known underlying structural pathology.
However, symptomatic cases have been described, e.g.
tumours, particularly pituitary adenomas, malformations, and infections/inflammations.
The evaluation of cluster headache is an issue unresolved.
Inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) is characterized by an apparent geographical distribution in incidence, being more common in North Africa than other parts of the world.
The ability to work effectively on a team is highly valued by employers, and collaboration among students can lead to intrinsic motivation, increased persistence, and greater transferability of skills.
Moreover, innovation often arises from multidisciplinary teamwork.
An investigation was undertaken to explore correlations between team outcomes, personality measures and ability in an undergraduate population.
Personality measures and ability involved the Five-Factor Model personality traits and GPA.
Personality, GPA, and teamwork survey data, as well as instructor evaluations were collected from upper division team project courses in engineering, business, political science, and industrial design at a large public university.
Other correlations to instructor-, students' self- and peer-ratings were revealed and merit further study.
The findings in this study can be used to understand important influences on successful teamwork, teamwork instruction and intervention and to understand the design of effective curricula in this area moving forward.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/2193-1801-2-16) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
The modified Hodge Test (MHT) was carried out to phenotypically determine whether resistance to carbapenems was mediated by a carbapenemase.
Obesity and its related illnesses are pan-endemic health problems which require intervention.
Laparoscopic Adjustable Gastric Banding (LAGB) is seen as a safe surgical procedure with satisfactory results on weight reduction and improvement in obesity related illness.
The development of electronic medical records has allowed the creation of new quality indicators in healthcare.
Among them, synthetic indicators facilitate global interpretation of results and comparisons between professionals.
The online version of this article (doi:10.1186/2193-1801-2-51) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Migraine is a complex disease whose physiopathological mechanisms are still not completely revealed.
A patient with an early diagnosed epilepsy Valproic acid is one of the most widely used antiepileptic drugs.
Hyperammonemic encephalopathy is a rare, but potentially fatal, adverse drug reaction to valproic acid.
Health disparities in cancer mortality for racial/ethnic minorities is a public health concern.
Financial navigation services and the insurance conversion process for cancer treatment are described.
While tamoxifen activity is mainly due to endoxifen and the concentration of this active metabolite is, in part, controlled by CYP2D6 metabolic status, clinical correlative studies have produced mixed results.
To demonstrate the utility of age- and location-stratified antibiograms, we compared stratified antibiograms for three common bacterial pathogens, E. coli, S. aureus, and S. pneumoniae.
We created stratified antibiograms based on patient age (&lt;18 years, 18-64 years, &gt;/=65 years), and inpatient or outpatient location using all 2009 E. coli and S. aureus, and all 2008-2009 S. pneumoniae isolates submitted to our clinical microbiology laboratory.
We compared susceptibility rates among cumulative and stratified antibiograms using descriptive statistics.
Biliary atresia (BA) is characterized by progressive inflammation and fibrosis of bile ducts.
A theory of pathogenesis entails autoimmune-mediated injury targeting bile duct epithelia.
One of the strongest genetic associations with autoimmunity is with HLA genes.
In addition, apparently dissimilar HLA alleles may have similar antigen-binding sites, called shared epitopes, that overlap in their capacity to present antigens.
The aim was to confirm a previously defined prognostic index, combining a proliferation marker, histological grade, and estrogen receptor (ER) in different subsets of primary N0/N1 chemo-nave breast cancer patients.
Synchronous adrenalectomy has become dispensable since retrospective studies have demonstrated no survival benefit when preoperative imaging was normal.
Software quality requirements defined in the requirements analysis stage should be implemented in the final products, such as source codes and system deployment.
To guarantee this meta-requirement, quality requirements should be considered in the intermediate stages, such as the design stage or the architectural definition stage.
We propose a novel method for checking whether quality requirements are considered in the design stage.
In this method, a technique called "spectrum analysis for quality requirements" is applied not only to requirements specifications but also to design documents.
The technique enables us to derive the spectrum of a document, and quality requirements considerations in the document are numerically represented in the spectrum.
We can thus objectively identify whether the considerations of quality requirements in a requirements document are adapted to its design document.
To validate the method, we applied it to commercial software systems with the help of a supporting tool, and we confirmed that the method worked well.
The purpose of our study was to evaluate the effect of 6% HES 130/0.4 on major complications associated with SAH.
Acinetobacter baumannii is an opportunistic pathogen posing an increased risk to hospitalized persons, causing nosocomial pneumonias, urinary tract infections and postoperative infections.
Obesity affects cancer risk and treatment outcomes.
Preventing weight gain may prevent some cancers, improve cancer outcomes, reduce cancer recurrence and increase cancer-related survival.
A combined composition of the extracted powders from Hippocampus kuda and Rhizoma Homalomenae together with honey in a form of medical pill (named as BRONAS) for the treatment of asthma has thoroughly been investigated under this study.
BRONAS has shown its high anti-inflammatory effects and strong inhibition upon the pathogenesis of asthma.
In comparison with other treatments without using BRONAS, the restoration of patients' health was improved by a factor of 2-3.
ACTRN12612000766819.
There is only one previous report of any leaf-cutting ant foraging directly on fungal basidiocarps.
Sleeve gastrectomy has increased in popularity over the last five years and it is likely to supersede gastric banding.
Nevertheless, it is unclear whether vitamin B12 supplementation is required after surgery.
The aim of this short report is to identify any vitamin B12 deficiency and highlight the necessity of post laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy vitamin B12 monitoring.
Globally, trauma represents a growing and significant burden of disease.
Many health systems have limited metrics with which to guide development and appropriately inform policy and management decisions with regard to trauma related health care delivery.
Plasma samples were analyzed for CBD, THC and its metabolite 11-hydroxy-THC (11-OH-THC).
Ketoconazole co-administration with THC/CBD spray had the opposite effect, increasing the Cmax of the respective analytes from 2.65 to 3.36 ng/mL (+27%), 0.66 to 1.25 ng/mL (+89%) and 3.59 to 10.92 ng/mL (+204%).
No significant deviations in Cmax or AUC for any analyte were observed when THC/CBD spray was co-administered with omeprazole.
The pneumatic tourniquet is frequently used in total knee arthroplasty.
Tourniquet deflation may result in hypotension and tachycardia caused by the rapid shift of blood volume back to the ischaemic limb and a decrease in cardiac preload.
Passive leg raising (PLR) represents a 'self-volume challenge' that can result in an increase in preload.
Marleen van Gelder was supported by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research/NWO (grant no.
021.001.008).
No competing interests are declared.
Marleen van Gelder was supported by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research/NWO (grant no.
021.001.008).
No competing interests are declared.
Funded by MRC grants G0901839 and G1100357.
No competing interests.
Supported by: Associazione Italiana per la Ricerca sul Cancro (AIRC) IG 10376, Carraresi Foundation and by Legge 7 Regione Autonoma Sardegna (R.A.S).
There are no conflicts of interest.
These methods, however, cannot reveal the exact spatial relationship between leukocytes and invasive trophoblast cells, and are therefore prone to subjective errors.
Thus, a more objective approach is required.
The study was supported by the European Commission (Network of Excellence 'The Control of Embryo Implantation (EMBIC)', FP6-512040, lead researcher: P.S.
None of the authors declared a conflict of interests.
No competing interests.
Financial support was provided through the regional agreement on medical training and clinical research (ALF) between the Stockholm County Council and Karolinska Institutet (number 20110258).
This study was also supported by grants from the Swedish Labor Market Insurance.
The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
This research was supported by a PhD scholarship from the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology granted to M.M.
(FCT, SFRH/BD/44232/2008).
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was supported by a clinical research mandate from the Flemish Foundation of Scientific Research (FWO-Vlaanderen, FWO09/ASP/063) to F.V.M, a fundamental clinical research mandate from the FWO-Vlaanderen (FWO05/FKM/001) to P.D.S and a Ghent University grant (KAN-BOF E/01321/01) to B.H.
The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
This research is supported by NIH's NICHD and NCI (5R01HD053112-06 and 5R21HD061259-02) and the Flemish Foundation for Scientific Research (FWO-Vlaanderen, grant number FWO G0.065.11N10).
The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.
This study was supported by the Sociedad Espaola de Fertilidad, the Spanish Ministry of Education and Science (TEC2011-29140-C03) and the Generalitat de Catalunya (2009SGR-00282 and 2009SGR-00158).
The authors do not have any competing interests.
The project was funded by the Norwegian Resource Centre for Women's Health, Oslo University Hospital.
The authors have no conflicts of interests.
Authors Brennan Peterson and Matthew Pirritano have no financial disclosures for this study.
Camilla Sandal Sejbaek and Lone Schmidt have received research grants from the Danish Health Insurance Foundation (J. nr.
2008B105) and Merck Sharp &amp; Dohme.
The funders had no influence on the data collection, analyses or conclusions of the study.
M.V.d.J.
is holder of a Ph.D. grant of the Agency for Innovation by Science and Technology (IWT, grant number SB093128), Belgium.
G.D. and this research are supported by the Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant number FWO-3G062910) and a Concerted Research Actions funding from BOF (Bijzonder Onderzoeksfonds University Ghent, grant number BOF GOA 01G01112).
S.M.C.d.
S.L.
is supported by the Netherlands Organization of Scientific Research (NWO) (ASPASIA 015.007.037) and the Interuniversity Attraction Poles (PAI) (no.
P7/07).
P.D.S.
is holder of a fundamental clinical research mandate by the FWO.
We would like to thank Ferring Company (Aalst, Belgium) for financial support of this study.
The authors do not have any competing interests to declare.
The authors declare no conflict of interest in this study.
This work was supported by the Economic and Social Research Council (grant number ES/I009221/1).
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
None.
EMR at the anorectal junction (ARJ) is technically challenging.
Issues of safety and procedural efficacy dictate that surgery is still performed as the primary management for noninvasive lesions in most centers.
ClinicalTrials.govNCT01224301.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of neural vision therapy, also termed perceptual vision therapy, in enhancing best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and contrast sensitivity function in amblyopic patients.
This study was funded by a grant from the Division of Urology, Western University.
The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.
Innovations in Surgical Education: Milestones.
Laparoscopic surgery requires certain specific skills.
There have been several attempts to minimize the learning curve with training outside the operation room.
Although simulators have been well validated as tools to teach technical skills, their integration into comprehensive curricula is lacking.
Currently, however, the integration of these simulated models into formal residency training curricula is lacking.
In our institute, we have adopted the Tuebingen Trainer devised by Professor GF Buess from Germany.
There remains increasing societal pressure to limit the use of animals in medical education.
We previously proposed an ethical model based on 2 fundamental ethical principles: the ethical concept of the physician as a fiduciary and the contractarian model of ethics.
The fiduciary physician practices medicine competently with the patients best interests in mind.
The role of a fiduciary professional imposes ethical standards on all physicians, at the core of which is the virtue of integrity, which requires the physician to practice medicine to standards of intellectual and moral excellence.
Contracts are models of negotiation and ethically permissible compromise.
Negotiated assent or consent is the core concept of contractarian bioethics.
Nonnegotiable goods are goals for residency training that should never be sacrificed or negotiated away.
Fiduciary responsibility to the patient, regardless of level of training, should never be compromised, because doing so violates the professional virtue of integrity.
The education of the resident is paramount to afford him or her the opportunity to provide competent care without supervision to future patients.
Such professional competence is the intellectual and clinical foundation of fiduciary responsibility, making achievement of educational goals during residency training another nonnegotiable good.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
18, No.
3.
See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment, Vol.
18, No.
4.
See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Sex steroids and genital surgery are known to affect sexual desire, but little research has focused on the effects of cross-sex hormone therapy and sex reassignment surgery on sexual desire in trans persons.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a frequent complaint of elderly subjects and is closely associated with endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular disease (CVD).
A Cochran Q test for k-related samples (= 0.05) was used for data analysis.
This study was supported by grants from the Science &amp; Engineering Research Board (SERB), India (Lr No: SR/FT/LS-188/2009) to BM.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
Supported by a scholarship from Aarhus University Research Foundation.
QLK4-CT-2001-00 202), www.inuendo.dk.
The Ukrainian part of the study was possible by a grant from INTAS (project 012 2205).
Determination of PFOA and PFOS in serum was part of the CLEAR study (www.inuendo.dk/clear) supported by the European Commission's 7th Framework Program (FP7-ENV-2008-1-226217).
No conflict of interest declared.
This study was supported by the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), Brazil.
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
No external funding was obtained for the present study.
None of the authors have any conflict of interest to declare.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
The authors declare that they have not received any particular study funding and do not have competing interests in this study.
The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
No funding was obtained for this study.
There was no funding to support this systematic review.
The authors have no competing interest to declare.
Supported by a scholarship from Aarhus University Research Foundation.
The Danish National Research Foundation has established the Danish Epidemiology Science Centre that initiated and created the DNBC.
The cohort is furthermore a result of a major grant from this Foundation.
No conflict of interest declared.
S.G. received a postdoctoral fellowship from the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT-SFRH/BPD/63063/2009).
There are no conflicts of interest to declare.
M.G.
was supported by an additional grant from the Sophia Foundation for Medical Research (SSWO grant number 644).
No competing interests are declared.
The study was funded by CSIR-Network Project 'PROGRAM' (BSC0101) and partly by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India (GAP0001).
The funding agencies did not play any role in this study and none of the authors had any competing interest(s).
This study was supported by a research grant (02-2012-021) from the Seoul National University Bundang Hospital.
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Higher BMI is associated with impaired semen parameters, while increasing waist circumference (WC) is also associated with impaired semen parameters in infertile men.
Supported by the Intramural Research Program of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (Contracts #N01-HD-3-3355, N01-HD-3-3356 and N01-HD-3-3358).
There are no competing interests.
None.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (BO 2540/4-1 and SCHL 394/9-1) and by the Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (S.L.G.
); Bilateral grant NWO-DFG 63-258.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
The genetic mechanisms contributing to ovarian function in TS patients are still not determined.
However, submicroscopic X-linked and autosomal copy number variations (CNVs) have recently emerged as an important genetic risk category for premature ovarian insufficiency and may be involved in modulating the TS ovarian phenotype.
This study was funded by Telethon Foundation (grant no: GGP09126 to L.P.), the Italian Ministry of the University and Research (grant number: 2006065999 to P.F.)
and a Ministry of Health grant 'Ricerca Corrente' to IRCCS Istituto Auxologico Italiano (grant number: 08C704-2006).
The authors have no conflict of interest to declare.
W.v.D.
is supported by the Paediatric Oncology Centre Society for Research (KOCR), Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
J.S.E.L.
has received grants from the following companies (in alphabetical order): Ferring, Genovum, Merck Serono, Merck Sharp and Dome, Organon, Serono, Shering Plough and Shering.
All other authors have nothing to disclose.
Good history-taking skills are the first step towards achieving a correct diagnosis of sexual dysfunction (SD).
However, studies show most general practitioners (GPs) do not take the initiative to ask the patient about SD, and when diagnosing a condition, they tend to give preference to their own criteria over clinical guidelines.
This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
18, No.
6.
See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) bounce after brachytherapy has been well-documented.
This phenomenon has also been identified in patients undergoing stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT).
While the parameters that predict PSA bounce have been extensively studied in prostate brachytherapy patients, this study is the first to analyze the clinical and pathologic predictors of PSA bounce in prostate SBRT patients.
These appear to be related to the impairment of HPA hormones through binding to glucocorticoid (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptors (MR).
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor hypofunction has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and its associated neurocognitive impairments.
Accordingly, we examined the modulatory effects of brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) stimulation on NMDA receptor hypofunction by examining the interactive effects of nicotine, a nAChR agonist, and ketamine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, on behavioral and neurophysiological measures in healthy human volunteers.
Early drug intervention in childhood disorders aims to maximize individual potential in the short- and long-term.
We investigated the effects of MPH on brain plasticity via dopamine receptor D3 (D3R) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in developing rats.
Complete Genomics provides an open-source suite of command-line tools for the analysis of their CG-formatted mapped sequencing files.
Determination of; for example, the functional impact of detected variants, requires annotation with various databases that often require command-line and/or programming experience; thus, limiting their use to the average research scientist.
It gives us the possibility to assess the disease impact on life of adolescents, and to sort out target groups of adolescents for future psychological interventions.
The objective of this cross-sectional survey was to study HRQoL in 173 adolescents with chronic physical illness (CPI - diabetes, asthma, and epilepsy), and to find HRQoL predictors in each disease group.
Means to prevent and control intra- or postoperative bleeding remain a topic of utmost importance in thyroidectomy.
In this randomised clinical trial, we used adrenaline spraying to see if it helps bleeding control and reduces drainage and hematoma formation after thyroidectomy.
Peripheral Keratocystic odontogenic tumor (PKCOT) is rare and has not been reported with imaging findings.
Stab wounds resulting in spinal cord injuries are very rare.
In direct central back stabbings, the layers of muscles and the spinal column tends to deflect blades, rarely causing injuries to the spinal cord.
We report an unusual case of traumatic spinal cord injury by a screwdriver stab, presented as Brown-Squard syndrome and discuss possible pitfalls on the surgical treatment.
Varicose and ectatic cutaneous vessels are common chronic conditions that might need surgical treatment.
There are several treatment modalities, but all can cause complications and have significant recurrence rates.
A new effective and safe treatment with low or no recurrence is needed.
Phenol seems to be a potential therapeutic agent.
The aim of this commentary is to investigate the interplay of Biopharmaceutics Classification System (BCS), Biopharmaceutics Drug Disposition Classification System (BDDCS) and Salivary Excretion Classification System (SECS).
BCS first classified drugs based on permeability and solubility for the purpose of predicting oral drug absorption.
Then BDDCS linked permeability with hepatic metabolism and classified drugs based on metabolism and solubility for the purpose of predicting oral drug disposition.
On the other hand, SECS classified drugs based on permeability and protein binding for the purpose of predicting the salivary excretion of drugs.
The role of metabolism, rather than permeability, on salivary excretion is investigated and the results are not in agreement with BDDCS.
Monitoring cardiovascular function in acutely ill patients in the emergency department (ED) is of paramount importance.
Arterial pressure (AP) is usually monitored using intermittent oscillometric measurements with an upper arm cuff.
The vascular unloading technique (VUT) allows continuous noninvasive AP monitoring.
In this study, we compare continuous AP measurements obtained by VUT with intermittent oscillometric AP measurements in ED patients.
Cross-sectional surveys and case-control studies analyzing ACE I/D polymorphisms and CKD were included.
They were required to match the following criteria: age &gt;18 years, absence of rare diseases, and Asian or Caucasian ethnicity.
TRIAL NAME: Cognitive Behavioral Treatment Of Insomnia In Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.
URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00881647.
NCT01526226.
This project was funded by the UK Medical Research Council (MRC) as part of the MRC-NIHR methodology research programme (reference G0901486) and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol.
18, No.
9.
See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.
This work was supported by a grant from DFG MA1080/17-3 and in part MA1080/19-1.
There are no competing interests.
The study was supported by the LUA/ALF agreement at Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden and by Hjalmar Svensson's Research Foundation.
None of the authors declared any conflict of interests.
No specific funding was used to undertake this study and the authors report no conflicts of interest.
G.M.C.
receives grant support to her institution from the Australian Government, Australian Research Council (ARC) Linkage Grant No LP1002165; ARC Linkage Grant Partner Organisations are IVFAustralia, Melbourne IVF and Queensland Fertility Group.
V.P.H.
is employed as an Economics Research Associate on the same grant.
None of the authors has any conflict of interest to declare.
This work was supported by a grant (93-CPQ 2012-05) from the DIRRECTE, Provence Alpes Cte d'Azur, France.
None of the authors have any conflict of interest to declare.
Lance Armstrong Foundation, Dutch Cancer Foundation, Ren Vogels Stichting, no competing interests.
This work was supported in part by Grants-in-aid for Scientific Research from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science.
There is no conflict of interest related to this study.
Supported by NIH grant numbers R01-HD036455 to Dr Barnhart and Dr Sammel, K24HD060687 to Dr Barnhart, and 5T32MH065218 to Ms. Zee.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
General Clinical Research Center for phlebotomy work has been supported in part by NIH grant UL1RR024986.
Recruitment and data analyses were supported by the Center for Integrated Approaches to Complex Diseases (SD Harlow, Director).
The authors report no conflicts of interest.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
The study was supported by the University Medical Center Groningen, the Cornelia Foundation and the school for Behavioral- and Cognitive Neurosciences.
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
The study was supported by the University Medical Center Groningen, the Cornelia Foundation and the school for Behavioral- and Cognitive Neurosciences.
Expenses for the acquirement of data were covered by a grant from The Secretary of Doctors further education, Central Denmark Region.
None of the authors have any competing interests to declare.
The authors have no competing interests.
The study was not supported by an external grant.
National Natural Science Foundation of China for Young Scholars (81300483).
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This work was supported by the National Basic Research Program of China (2011|CB944504, 2011CB944503) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (81200470, 81000275, 31230047, 8110197).
There are no conflicts of interest to declare.
No external funding was used for this project.
None of the authors have any conflict of interest to declare.
Funding was provided by the University Hospital of Essen.
This work was supported by The Seneca Foundation, Regional Agency of Science and Technology, grant no 00694/PI/04, Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovacin, Instituto de Salud Carlos III (FIS), grant no PI10/00985, and grant P30 DK46200 from the National Institutes of Health.
The authors have no competing interests to declare.
none.
No particular funding was obtained for this study and the authors have no conflict of interest.
This work was supported by grants from Ministry of University and Scientific Research (Prin project to E.B.
and FIRB project to S.M) and Regione Toscana (to G.F.).
The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.
This project was supported by Fondazione Giorgio Pardi, Milan, Italy.
The guideline was developed and funded by ESHRE, covering expenses associated with the guideline meetings, with the literature searches and with the implementation of the guideline.
The guideline group members did not receive payment.
All guideline group members disclosed any relevant conflicts of interest (see Conflicts of interest).
Funded by PregLem/Gedeon Richter.
D.H.B.
Stock originally held in PregLem was given up when PregLem was incorporated into Gedeon Richter; D.H.B.
does not currently hold stock.
M.A.L.
has received payment from Gideon Richter to attend a meeting to present these data (Barcelona, April 2013) but no financial support in preparing the manuscript.
B.C.J.M.F.
is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of PregLem and has received fees and grant support from the following companies: Andromed, Ardana, Auxogyn, Ferring, Genovum, Gedeon Richter, Merck Serono, MSD, Organon, Pantharei Bioscience, PregLem, Roche, Schering, Schering Plough, Serono, Watson Laboratories and Wyeth.
P.T.
is a paid statistical consultant for PregLem SA.
E.B.
is a full time employee of PregLem and received payment from stocks sold in October 2010 from the company's full acquisition by Gedeon Richter Group.
Few studies have comprehensively examined the effectiveness of information and psychosocial support on all dimensions of cancer patients' supportive care needs.
NCT01372553.
Instituto de Salud Carlos III.
National Cancer Institute.
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
No reports associate the presence of pericardial fluid with coronary CT angiography (CTA) images that are degraded by motion artifact.
National Institutes of Health.
While traditional paradigms exist, the integration of new technologies into these diagnostic and treatment algorithms can result in alternative, potentially more efficient methods of managing these findings.
We have previously demonstrated EMP-induced acute lung injury (ALI) in animal models and endothelial barrier dysfunction in vitro.
Current treatment options for ALI are limited and consist of supportive therapies.
We hypothesize that standard clinical continuous venovenous hemofiltration (CVVH) reduces serum EMP levels and may be adapted as a potential therapeutic intervention.
In more than 50 percent of the patients and in &lt;72 hours, steady NRSs and NRSd score reduction of at least two points, NRSs  3 and NRSd 4; and mean daily morphine consumption &lt; mean of one rescue dose and t1:t6 ratio of mean oxycodone daily dose &lt; 1:2.
Onychophora is a relatively small phylum within Ecdysozoa, and is considered to be the sister group to Arthropoda.
Compared to the arthropods, that have radiated into countless divergent forms, the onychophoran body plan is overall comparably simple and does not display much in-phylum variation.
An important component of arthropod morphological diversity consists of variation of tagmosis, i.e.
How these genes are expressed in the simpler onychophorans, the subject of this paper, would therefore be of interest in understanding their subsequent evolution in the arthropods, especially if an argument can be made for the onychophoran system broadly reflecting the ancestral state in the arthropods.
The architecture of human otoconia has been only poorly understood up to now.
Currently, it is assumed that otoconia contain a central core surrounded by a shell.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Recordings were transcribed and analyzed using a grounded theory approach until thematic saturation was achieved.
Plant-derived compounds have played an important role in the development of several clinically useful anticancer agents.
Cancer is a disease where there is abnormal cell proliferation.
The proliferation of the cancer cells are restrained by cdk/cyclin complexes, which control the normal process of cell cycle.
The effect of inflammation on pathogenesis and biological behavior of odontogenic keratocyst (OKC) and dentigerous cyst (DC) is not completely understood.
Hence, we aimed to analyze the effect of inflammation on biological behavior of OKC and DC using a proliferative and anti-apoptotic marker, i.e., proliferative cellular nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Bcl-2, respectively.
Burn injuries are a serious public health problem.
The success of bonding brackets to enamel with resin bonding systems is negatively affected by contamination with oral fluids such as blood and saliva.
The new self-etch primer systems combine conditioning and priming agents into a single application, making the procedure more cost effective.
One-third of the total human population is infected with the Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
This bacterium causes illness in up to 9 million people annually and is responsible for three deaths every minute world-wide.
As a measure to reduce the out of pocket health spending in our country, the high level expert group on Universal Health Coverage recommends a National Health Package free of cost to all.
Whether availability of services free of cost, will reduce out of pocket expenditure?
Anomalies in primary dentition are often found to be associated with anomalies in permanent dentition.
The art of forceps delivery though existing for centuries has earned a disreputation due to the possibility of poor maternal and fetal outcome.
Chromosome 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS), fragile X syndrome (FXS), and Turner syndrome (TS) are complex and variable developmental syndromes caused by different genetic abnormalities; yet, they share similar cognitive impairments in the domains of numbers, space, and time.
The atypical development of foundational neural networks that underpin the attentional system is thought to result in further impairments in higher-order cognitive functions.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
Mohs surgery is one of the most effective treatment options for skin cancers as it offers one of the highest chances for cure.
Mohs surgery is a precise technique that removes a layer at a time.
Currently the guidelines for Mohs surgery do not discuss the premanagement of immunobullous patients about to undergo Mohs surgery.
People usually spent about 90% of their time indoors, which are probably more polluted than outside the buildings.
p-Nitrophenol (PNP) occurs as contaminants of industrial effluents and it is the most important environmental pollutant and causes significant health and environmental risks, because it is toxic to many living organisms.
Nevertheless, the information regarding PNP degradation pathways and their enzymes remain limited.
Persian Gulf is an exposed and stressed area as a result of oil pollution and other fossil fuels containing PAHs.
The susceptibility of using mudskippers to monitor marine pollution, like PAHs, points to the fact that mudskippers are able to accumulate and record the PAHs presented in the coastal environments.
In the study, the Aras Basin and its environment, one of the most important hydrological basins of Turkey, was evaluated.
In survey area, to determine the change of air quality, it was benefited from 23,770 pieces of hourly measured SO2 (Sulfur dioxide) and PM10 (particulate matter) concentration values for the December, January and February of 2009-2010 in which the pollution is at peak, by forming database in geographical information system (GIS), spatial analyze maps were attained.
By comparing; maps showing attained numeral air quality and maps showing the spread of forest lands in the region, it was tried to determine the relation and interaction between air quality and forest lands.
Program evaluation is important for assessing the effectiveness of the residency curriculum.
Limited resources are available, however, and curriculum evaluation processes must be sustainable and well integrated into program improvement efforts.
Morbidity and mortality (M&amp;M) conferences provide a forum for discussing adverse events and systems-based practice (SBP) issues; however, few models for implementing multidisciplinary, systems-focused M&amp;M conferences exist.
Understanding quality improvement (QI) is an important skill for physicians, yet educational interventions focused on teaching QI to residents are relatively rare.
Web-based training may be an effective teaching tool in time-limited and expertise-limited settings.
The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education expects resident duty hours to be monitored, yet no previous studies have examined the effect of after-hours electronic health record (EHR) use on resident hours or burnout.
There is an increasing use of electronic health records in hospitals across the United States.
One challenge facing the health care workforce is a paucity of pediatrics subspecialists.
Furthermore, these studies also lack specifics from the actual time that attacks were occurring, and how patients express and share their ongoing suffering.
Provoked and spontaneous nocturnal erections are thought to play a role in maintenance of male sexual health through oxygenation of the corpus cavernosa.
Conversely, hypoxia is thought to be an etiological factor in the pathogenesis of cavernosal fibrosis and long-term erectile dysfunction.
It has been hypothesized that the early penile hypoxia after radical prostatectomy (RP) may lead to fibrosis and consequently a decrease in stretched penile length and long-term erectile dysfunction.
Penile prosthesis implantation is considered to be a satisfactory treatment for erectile dysfunction.
Previous studies have assessed mainly prosthesis function and perioperative complications and have measured satisfaction only with regard to sexual performance.
Very little, if anything, has been reported on the most relevant question: To what extent does the implant affect the patient's life?
National Institutes of Health.
National Cancer Institute.
None.
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
National Institutes of Health.
The purposes of this study are 1) to report outcomes in pregnant patients receiving chiropractic treatment; 2) to compare outcomes from subgroups; 3) to assess predictors of outcome.
Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) is a rare dermatological condition characterized by the rapid progression of a painful, necrolytic ulcer with an irregular, undermined border and commonly affects the lower extremities, mainly in the pretibial area.
The diagnosis of PG is not easy.
Due to lack of diagnostic laboratory test and histopathological findings indicative of PG, it is often misdiagnosed as an infection.
This results in delayed or inappropriate treatment of the condition, which leads to devastating consequences such as limb amputation and death.
Majority of C1 fractures can be effectively treated conservatively by immobilization or traction unless there is an injury to the transverse ligament.
Conservative treatment usually involves a long period of immobilization in a halo-vest.
Surgical intervention generally involves fusion, eliminating the motion of the upper cervical spine.
We describe the treatment of unstable Jefferson fractures designed to avoid these problems of both conservative and invasive methods.
Cages have been widely used for the anterior reconstruction and fusion of cervical spine.
This study aims to assess fusion with n-HA/PA66 cage following one level anterior cervical discectomy.
Ideal surgical treatment for thoracic disc herniation (TDH) is controversial due to variations in patient presentation, pathology, and possible surgical approach.
Althougth discectomy may lead to improvements in neurologic function, it can be complicated by approach related morbidity.
Various posterior surgical approaches have been developed to treate TDH, but the gold standard remains transthoracic decompression.
A transfacet pedicle approach was first described in 1995, but outcomes and complications have not been well described.
Painful vertebral hemangiomas are often inadequately managed medically.
Bone mass loss and muscle atrophy are the frequent complications occurring after spinal cord injury (SCI).
Thus, there is a need to quantitate and monitor body composition changes accurately in an individual with SCI.
Various anterior lumbar surgical approaches, including the minimally invasive approach, have greatly improved in recent years.
Vascular complications resulting from ALIF are frequently reported.
Little information is available about the safety of large blood vessel stretch.
We evaluated the right side stretch limit (RSSL) of the abdominal aorta (AAA) and the inferior vena cava (IVC) without blood flow occlusion and investigated stretch-induced histological injury and thrombosis in the iliac and femoral arteries and veins and the stretched vessels.
The hypothesis was that T1-T12 arthrodesis modified thoracic dimensions, but would not modify cardiopulmonary function once skeletal maturity was reached.
Shoulder pain in general and acromioclavicular joint (ACJ) pain specifically is common after acceleration-deceleration injury following road traffic accident (RTA).
Mucoid degeneration (MD) is a rare pathological affection of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL).
Mucinous material within the substance of ACL produces pain and limited motion in the knee.
The aim of this study was to compare the effect of supine versus lateral position on clinical signs of fat embolism during orthopedic trauma surgery.
Dogs served as the current study model, which could be extended and/or serve as a basis for future in vivo studies on humans.
It was hypothesized that there would be an effect of position on clinical signs of fat embolism syndrome in a dog model.
The purpose of this study was to examine school-level changes associated with implementation of the Food and Beverage Sales in Schools (FBSS) and Daily Physical Activity (DPA) guidelines in British Columbia, Canada.
Analysis of sinusoidal noisy leaky integrate-and-fire models and comparison with experimental data are important to understand the neural code and neural synchronization and rhythms.
In this paper, we propose two methods to estimate input parameters using interspike interval data only.
One is based on numerical solutions of the Fokker-Planck equation, and the other is based on an integral equation, which is fulfilled by the interspike interval probability density.
The main contribution is a binning method to circumvent the problems of nonstationarity, and an easy-to-implement initializer for the numerical procedures.
The methods are compared on simulated data.
Leaky integrate-and-fireISI: Interspike intervalSDE: Stochastic differential equationPDE: Partial differential equation.
The consequences of alcohol dependence are severe and may range from physical disease to neuropsychological deficits in several cognitive domains.
Alcohol abuse has also been related to brain dysfunction specifically in the prefrontal cortex.
Conventional neuropsychological interventions (paper-and-pencil cognitive stimulation training) have a positive effect but are time-consuming, costly, and not motivating for patients.
Participants reported experiencing significant changes across all components of the SAC measure.
Acupuncture is an often sought-out treatment modality for migraine.
The World Health Organization lists headache as one of the several conditions treated effectively by acupuncture.
Insomnia is one of the most common complaints faced by primary care practitioners after pain.
Shirodhara with Brahmi oil was done for 45 minutes on each participant for 5 consecutive days.
Data were collected at baseline, end of the treatment (day 5) and 1 week after the treatment ended (follow-up).
These studies would be compatible with the idea that even short-term MgD could cause alterations of the genome in diverse cell types leading to mutations of cardiac, vascular, and endothelial cells seen in aging and atherogenesis.
Since we have shown, previously, that activation of N-SMAse in MgD leads to synthesis and release of ceramide in cardiovascular tissues and cells, we believe this pathway, most likely, helps to result in downregulation of telomerase, upregulation of transcription factors (e.g., p53; NF-kB), cytokine release, mutations, transformations, and dysfunctional growth seen in the cardiac and vascular cells observed in the normal aging process, atherogenesis, hypertension, and cardiac failure.
Lastly, we suggest ways in which this hypothesis can be tested.
To evaluate the capability of impedance cardiography (ICG) in reflecting the cardiac functions of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients.
The aging process is associated with physiological changes that affect sleep.
Heart rate variability (HRV) is a marker of sympathovagal balance; it has been implicated in erectile function and is also altered by tobacco use.
Few studies have explored the interrelationships between smoking, HRV, and erectile function concurrently.
Most research on men's use of commercial lubricants during sexual activities is in the context of condom use and often specifically among men who have sex with men.
Less is known about men's use of lubricants associated with a broader range of sexual experiences.
Despite the impact of provoked vulvar pain on women's sexuality and the partnered sexual context in which the pain typically occurs, partners have not been included widely in research.
The global health burden has faced toward non-communicable diseases (NCDs).
It is suggested that adulthood blood pressure (BP) is tracked from childhood.
Hypertension is fast emerging as a major health problem amongst all school adolescents, particularly in urban areas.
Little objective evidence is available to guide rehabilitation protocols in regard to the sling weaning process following arthroscopy surgery of the shoulder.
The purpose of this study was to establish an objective, criterion based protocol for accelerated sling weaning following shoulder arthroscopy.
Currently, there are no published reports describing the rehabilitation of younger males after arthroscopy and open reconstruction of the medial patellofemoral ligament (MPFL) using a tibialis anterior allograft.
Head injuries, including concussions, in athletes can account for an extended period of time lost from sports competition.
Neurocognitive and balance deficits which may linger following a concussion affect an athlete's ability to return to sport safely.
ImPACT testing is a reliable method for identifying neurocognitive deficits and assists in the development of a neurocognitive training program.
Research evidence suggesting specific rehabilitation strategies and interventions addressing neurocognitive deficits following a concussion is lacking.
Progressions in a neurocognitive training program may include the integration of balance, reaction training, and activities that address memory deficits.
The purpose of this case report is to discuss the evaluation and treatment plan for a female snowboard athlete following a concussion.
The intention of the sport specific guidelines is to maintain the integrity of the current six-step model, add a moderate activity phase highlighted by resistance training, and to provide contact and limited contact drills specific to the athlete's sport and/or position.
The drills and activities in the proposed seven-step programs are designed to simulate sport specific movements; the sports include: football, gymnastics, cheerleading, wrestling, soccer, basketball, lacrosse, baseball, softball, and ice hockey.
The final RTP determination should occur with documented medical clearance from a licensed healthcare provider who has been trained in the evaluation and management of concussions.
There have been significant strides in the management and care of concussed athletes.
However, there continues to be a lot of confusion among, athletes, parents, and coaches regarding the proper management of an athlete with a concussion, particularly in the pediatric population.
In an effort to eliminate ambiguity and help further promote adherence to the RTP guidelines, the authors developed several sports-specific RTP guidelines.
History and physical examination can be useful to classify those with non-arthritic intra-articular hip pathology as having impingement or instability.
These indexes identify and quantify acetabular and femoral deformities that may contribute to instability and impingement.
The aim of this paper is to discuss clinical indications, methods, and the use of hip radiological images or radiology reports as they relate to physical examination findings for those with non-arthritic hip pathology.
Refugees experience dietary changes as part of the daily challenges they face resettling in a new country.
Sudanese women seek to care and feed their families, but face language barriers in the marketplace, limited access to familiar foods, and forced new food choices.
This study aimed to understand the acceptability of a purse-sized nutrition resource, "The Market Guide", which was developed to help recently immigrated Sudanese refugee women identify and purchase healthy foods and navigate grocery stores.
None.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
The SQ-standardized grass allergy immunotherapy tablet (AIT) has been demonstrated as a disease-modifying treatment which gives a sustained effect even after completion of a treatment course.
Blockade of immune inhibitory pathways is emerging as an important therapeutic modality for the treatment of cancer.
Single agent treatments have partial anti-tumor activity in preclinical models and in human cancer patients.
Inasmuch as the tumor microenvironment shows evidence of multiple immune inhibitory mechanisms present concurrently, it has been reasoned that combination therapies may be required for optimal therapeutic effect.
We tested the hypothesis that a novel vaccine developed from autologous dendritic cells (DC) loaded with cells from a unique allogeneic brain tumor cell line (GBM6-AD) would be well-tolerated and would generate an immune response.
Oncolytic viruses represent a novel form of cancer immunotherapy.
However, predictive biomarkers of therapeutic response have not yet been identified.
Despite the positive impact of targeted therapies on metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), durable responses are infrequent and an unmet need exists for novel therapies with distinct mechanisms of action.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are among the major obstacles that adjuvants for cancer vaccines have to overcome.
These cells cross-present tumor-associated antigens (TAA) to naive T lymphocytes with a tolerogenic outcome.
Very Small Size Proteoliposomes (VSSP) is used as adjuvant by four therapeutic cancer vaccines currently in Phase I and II clinical trials.
We previously found that VSSP reduces the suppressive function of MDSCs, then activating antigen-specific CTL responses in tumor-bearing (TB) mice, with the consequent reduction of tumor growth.
However the mechanistic explanation for the immunomodulatory effect of this adjuvant in TB hosts has not been addressed before.
The Ferriman-Gallwey hirsutism score is the currently accepted standard for assessing excess hair growth that may indicate hyperandrogenicity.
The score was originally based on 60 Caucasian women, and recent studies suggest that it may need modification to be used in other populations.
That serotonin plays a role in the regulation of feeding behavior and energy metabolism has been known for a long time.
Serotonin transporters (SERT) play a crucial role in serotonin signaling by regulating its availability in the synaptic cleft.
What are the neural mechanisms of musical beat perception, and how did they evolve?
One view, which dates back to Darwin and implicitly informs some current models of beat perception, is that the relevant neural mechanisms are relatively general and are widespread among animal species.
On the basis of recent neural and cross-species data on musical beat processing, this paper argues for a different view.
Here we argue that beat perception is a complex brain function involving temporally-precise communication between auditory regions and motor planning regions of the cortex (even in the absence of overt movement).
This "action simulation for auditory prediction" (ASAP) hypothesis leads to testable predictions.
We further suggest that ASAP relies on dorsal auditory pathway connections between auditory regions and motor planning regions via the parietal cortex, and suggest that these connections may be stronger in humans than in non-human primates due to the evolution of vocal learning in our lineage.
This suggestion motivates cross-species research to determine which species are capable of human-like beat perception, i.e., beat perception that involves accurate temporal prediction of beat times across a fairly broad range of tempi.
National Cancer Institute.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is an increasing health problem that demands effective treatment.
There is evidence that phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors (PDE5-Is) and psychological intervention (PI) are effective treatment options; however, little is known about their comparative efficacy and the efficacy of combined treatments.
Orgasmic dysfunction (OD) is defined as the inability to achieve an orgasm, markedly diminished intensity of orgasmic sensations, or marked delay of orgasm during any kind of sexual stimulation.
OD definition and method of diagnosis vary widely across studies.
The interaction between advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) and its receptors for AGEs (RAGEs) elicits oxidative stress and mediates the development of erectile dysfunction (ED).
ALT-711, an AGE cross-link breaker, has the therapeutic potential for ED but has been less intensively investigated.
A public outcry against testosterone (T) therapy has suddenly occurred based on two reports suggesting treatment was associated with increased cardiovascular (CV) risks.
Studies have demonstrated that the presence of a peer increases physical activity in children.
We sought to determine if children would expend more energy and find playing the "exergame" (Wii) more motivating than the sedentary video game (Playstation 2) when with a peer.
Seventeen children (age 8.5  0.4 years) rested, played the sedentary video game and "exergame" for 10 min each, in two conditions: one in which the children rested/played the games alone (alone condition) and another in which they played with a peer (peer condition).
Oxygen consumption (VO2), and liking (visual analog scale) was assessed for each 10-min condition.
After three 10-min resting/gaming conditions, motivation was assessed using a relative reinforcing value task in which children performed computer mouse presses to gain additional access for either the sedentary video game or "exergame."
VO2 was greater (p &lt; 0.001) during "exergame" play (mean = 12.17  4.1 mlkg(-1)min(-1)) vs. rest (mean = 5.14  1.46 mlkg(-1)min(-1)) and the sedentary video game (mean = 5.83  2.1 mlkg(-1)min(-1)).
Boys showed a significantly greater increase (p = 0.05) in VO2 from the resting condition to "exergame" in the presence of a peer ( 11.1  5.3 mlkg(-1)min(-1)) vs. the alone condition ( 6.8  3.1 mlkg(-1) min(-1)).
Motivation for "exergame" significantly decreased (p = 0.03) from alone (340.8  106.8 presses) to the peer condition (147.8  81.6 presses).
None.
Moderate-to-severe white matter abnormality (WMA) in the newborn has been shown to produce persistent disruptions in cerebral connectivity but does not universally result in neurodevelopmental disability in very preterm (VPT) children.
Iodine deficiency disorder (IDD) is a public health problem in Uttarakhand state.
Training guidelines for novice runners are needed to reduce the risk of injury.
An objective classification system for studying youth baseball players in the U.S.A. was published in 1996.
Professional baseball is composed of greater than 25% international players a majority of whom come from five countries.
Many youth baseball players are injured in early years play, both in the U.S.A. and internationally.
There is no international classification system to study youth baseball pitching injuries, biomechanics, or maturation, but one is needed in order to compare and combine pitchers in multi-center studies.
Uniform domestic and international pre-injury normative data is optimum.
Ideally, data collection should be practical requiring inexpensive equipment and limited time demands.
/
20.
Upper extremity deep vein thrombosis (UEDVT) is a rare complication following arthroscopic shoulder surgery.
However, it is possible that a patient with an UEDVT will present to physical therapy as the first service to interact with the patient following surgery.
As a result, proper screening in the physical therapy setting is essential.
Acute onset of shoulder pain in adolescent athletes typically is related to trauma.
The subject of this case report, a 13 year-old male, was injured when he collided with another athlete while his right arm was extended.
He experienced immediate onset of significant right shoulder pain.
Manual assessment in the emergency department revealed anterior tenderness and loss of function due to pain - most notably limitations in both active internal rotation and abduction.
A plain film showed a radiographic density anterior to the humeral head but a donation site (where a bony avulsion may have occurred) was not delineated.
Pediatric swimmers perform repetitive motions over prolonged distance that predisposes them to injury.
There is evidence highlighting biomechanics, evaluation, and treatment of swimmers; however, there is minimal research related to return to swimming following non-operative injury other than some suggestion of restricted distance guidelines.
In a series of two articles, the background and rationale for the analysis of fundamental movement will be provided.
The Functional Movement Screen (FMS) will be described, and any evidence related to its use will be presented.
Three of the seven fundamental movement patterns that comprise the FMS are described in detail in Part I: the Deep Squat, Hurdle Step, and In-Line Lunge.
Part II of this series which will be provided in the August issue of IJSPT, will provide a detailed description of the four additional patterns that complement those presented in Part I (to complete the seven total fundamental movements): Shoulder Mobility, the Active Straight Leg Raise, the Trunk Stability Push-up, and Rotary Stability, as well as a discussion about the utility of functional movement screening, and the future of functional movement.
Quadriceps deficits after various knee procedures are well-documented.
One method common to strength and conditioning circles is variable resistance training (VRT).
VRT involves the use of heavy chains and elastic bands to facilitate gains in strength and power.
Most of the application in strength training however has been on healthy, trained athletes.
Sports physical therapists may use elastic bands for VRT to augment strength gains for the recovering athlete.
The purpose of this manuscript is to provide a clinical suggestion for the use of VRT in athletic rehabilitation.
Data on the numbers and types of physicians-in-training, such as those collected by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), can be used to help understand variables affecting this supply.
Micro and macro-vascular complications of Type 2 Diabetes mellitus (DM) could be decreased by maintaining a good glycaemic control, which is dependent on adherence to medication and self care.
Aim &amp; Objectives: Developing a tactful paper writing skill, through delivery and depiction of the necessary expressions required for in standard or superior essay writing.
Understanding relevance and tact of theoretical expression in exam paper writing Learning Indices of standard or quality theory/essay answer (SAQ/LAQ).
Applying knowledge and skill gained through these theory writing exercises and assignments to achieve high or better scores in examinations.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is the most common cancer of the head and neck.
It accounts for more than 90% of all malignancies Which occur in the head and neck region.
The hard tissues of the human dentition are able to resist decay and degradation, long after other tissues are lost.
This resistance has made teeth useful indicators for age calculation.
Recent research has indicated that Tooth Cementum Annulations (TCA) may be used more reliably than any other morphological or histological traits of the adult skeleton, for age estimation.
Prosthodontic treatment involves clinical procedures which influence speech performance directly or indirectly.
Prosthetic rehabilitation of missing teeth with partial or complete maxillary removable dentures influences the individual voice characteristics like Phonation, resonance etc.
Myofibroblasts are cells that have contractile properties and are involved in inflammation, wound healing, fibrosis and oncogenesis in most of the organs and tissues.
They are involved in healing and granulation tissue formation which occur after tissue injuries, also produce inflammatory mediators, growth factors and help in extracellular matrix reorganization by secretion of proteins like collagen, fibronectin, etc.
Because of their component, Alpha smooth muscle actin ([alpha]-SMA), they are involved in the contraction of extracellular matrix and aid in tissue contraction.
The myofibroblasts disappear by apoptosis after completion of repair, but their persistence causes a dysfunction in the repair mechanism, leading to excessive contraction and extracellular matrix (ECM) secretion and thus, fibrosis.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the presence of myofibroblasts in cases of Oral Submucous fibrosis (OSMF), which consisted of very early, early and moderately advanced OSMF, OSMF with dysplasia and oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), by detecting (alpha)-SMA, which is a specific marker for myofibroblasts.
Noise is a source of pervasive occupational hazard for practicing dentists and the patients.
The sources of dental sounds by various dental equipments can pose as a potential hazard to hearing system and add to the annoyance levels of the patients.
The aim of the study was to analyze the noise levels from various equipments and evaluate the effect of acoustic noise stimulus on dental fear and annoyance levels among patients attending different dental clinic setups in Jaipur, India.
Prosthodontic procedures involving dental impressions, stone casts, record bases and prostheses may cause transmission of microorganisms between the patient, the dentist, auxiliary staff and laboratory personnel.
In recent times, microwave radiation has gained wider acceptance in the field of applied science and has been used to reduce concentrations of bacteria and fungi, to dry dental casts,and to sterilize preparation media.
Tobacco is the greatest disease-producing product which is known to man and it is a primary cause of many oral diseases and adverse oral conditions.
This study was conducted to bring the behavioural changes and to educate individuals about the harmful effects of tobacco.
Different forms of PHP have been reported based on biochemical and clinical manifestation and genetic findings.
Most of these forms are caused by defects in GNAS, an imprinted gene locus with multiple subunits.
We reported a 12- year- old girl with unusual clinical manifestations of Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism(PPHP).
A simple simulation model is needed for residents to learn how to handle microsurgical instruments and to perform safe dissection of intracranial or intraorbital nerves, vessels, and other structures.
The British Orthodontic Society Foundation funded the study and American Orthodontics provided all the TADs and associated equipment.
National Institutes of Health.
Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation.
Methylphenidate is the most commonly used stimulant drug for the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Leptospirosis presents diagnostic challenges to clinicians, in settings where other acute febrile illness are prevalent.
Hospitals have a role to play in supporting, protecting and promoting breastfeeding.
Measurement of lipid fractions and ratios are widely recommended for risk assessment.
A few studies have shown that serum uric acid plays a role in the development of cardiovascular morbidity.
Very few reports are cited linking serum uric acid with the lipid fraction in CAD.
National Institutes of Health and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
National Cancer Institute and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) are the mainstay of anemia therapy.
Continuous erythropoietin receptor activator (CERA) is a highly effective, long-acting ESA developed for once-monthly dosing.
In times of permanent financial pressure on health care systems, the cost-effectiveness of CERA should be of particular importance for payers and clinicians.
Abdominal fat (AF) reduction is advocated in the treatment of obesity-related diseases.
Nonetheless, recent studies have shown additional beneficial effects against obesity-related health risks, independent of AF reduction.
Clarification of the primary role of AF in the pathogenesis of obesity-related disease is also important.
This review deals with the use of serum albumin (SA) as a carrier for the selective delivery of drugs to liver cells.
Staphylococcus aureus has been implicated in the pathogenesis of adult hand/foot dermatitis.
We evaluated the prevalence and components of the MetS and its associated clinical and demographic factors in a Ghanaian adult population with DM 2.
There is a significant gap in research regarding the readability and comprehension of existing sexual function measures.
Patient-reported outcome measures may use terms not well understood by respondents with low literacy.
Cycling is growing in popularity among women.
As in men, it is associated with genital neuropathies and decreased sensation in female riders.
However, there is a gap in research and information addressing the relationship between cycling and female sexual dysfunction (FSD) in women.
Laboratory workers working with Hib and/or MenC cultures may be at a potentially increased risk of acquiring infectious diseases and vaccination is therefore an important safety consideration.
We undertook a clinical trial to investigate the safety and immunogenicity of Hib/MenC-TT vaccine in this cohort.
Although their potential economic burden in the European Union (EU-25) might be substantial, comprehensive reviews focusing on the distribution of these risks across occupational groups are limited.
Thus, the main objective of this review is to provide a synopsis of the exposure to chemical and biological hazards across occupational groups.
Cardon Rehabilitation Products through the American Academy of Orthopaedic Manual Physical Therapists.
Impaired perineal wound healing has become a significant clinical problem after abdominoperineal resection for rectal cancer.
The increased use of neoadjuvant radiotherapy and wider excisions might have contributed to this problem.
Studies describing any outcome measure on perineal wound healing after abdominoperineal resection for rectal cancer were included.
Chronic pain affects millions of racially diverse Americans.
Cancer is a complex disorder whose detection and monitoring remains challenging.
A biological modeling system, the biology of functions (BoF), claims to be able to evaluate physiologic elements related to carcinogenic activity.
Volume supplementation is the most effective strategy to prevent acute renal failure caused by contrast; but the effects of sodium bicarbonate regimens are unknown in CIN prevention.
The aim of this survey is to compare the efficacy of hydration with normal saline versus hydration with sodium bicarbonate in the prevention of the CIN in patients undergoing coronary angiography.
Cardiac oxytocin (OT) is structurally identical to that found in the hypothalamus, which thereby indicates that cardiac OT is derived from the same gene and is an active form of OT.
The abundance of OT and OT receptors in atrial myocytes shows that, directly and/or via the release of the cardiac hormone atrial natriuretic peptide, OT can regulate the force of cardiac contractions.
Previous studies have demonstrated the role of OT in the myocardial inflammatory response.
The mechanism by which OT elicits protective myocardial effects in the immediate post-transplantation period is not yet clear, and the role of the early phase inflammatory elements in this mechanism has not yet been studied.
As a result, in this study, we have investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of OT on myocardial protection in the immediate post-transplantation period.
Hypertension is a significant public health concern of world-wide distribution and is also the most common cardiovascular disease risk factor.
Adequate control of blood pressure is a critical element in the prevention of hypertension induced-organ damage and life-threatening complications.
Anemia is the most common blood disorder observed in vulnerable groups and affects their efficiency in their everyday activities.
Screening programs impose certain costs upon the health system, which may offset their positive effects.
Whether the positive impacts of screening outweigh its costs is a subject of debate among policy-makers.
In this research, we have conducted a systematic review of the cost-effectiveness of anemia screening.
Concerns have been raised about the possibility of a predisposition of Kawasaki disease (KD) to abnormal lipid profile after an acute phase of disease, which can predispose them to premature atherosclerosis later in life.
Osteoarthritis is one of the most common diseases in middle-aged populations in the World and could become the fourth principal cause of disability by the year 2020.
One of the critical properties for cartilage tissue engineering (TE) is the ability of scaffolds to closely mimic the extracellular matrix and bond to the host tissue.
The aim of study is to improve differentiation of adipose derived stem cells (ADSCs) into chondrocytes in order to provide a safe and modern treatment for patients suffering from cartilage damages.
This study aims to investigate the effect of antioxidants supplement on clinical outcomes and antioxidant parameters in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Based on the studies, the most common complaint reported is of the VDT users.
Smokers are at greater risk than nonsmokers of becoming insulin resistant and to develop cardiovascular disease.
This study aimed to explore the association between cigarette smoking, MetSyn, and its components among Puerto Rican adults.
Gastrointestinal tract cancer (GI.C) is one of the common cancers in world-wide.
Frozen shoulder has always been considered important because of the impact on the quality-of-life and long period of illness.
Therefore, the use of noninvasive and safe techniques that can speed up the healing process of the disease is important.
Malnutrition is a major public health problem in a developing country like India.
Wastewaters seem to play an important role in the dissemination of bacteria and antibiotic resistant genes (ARGs) in our environment.
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction, especially delirium commonly occurs after cardiac surgery.
Clinical evidences suggest an increase in delirium in opium abusers after Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery.
Delayed reporting resulting in advanced stage disease is a common problem in Indian cancer patients.
This study analysed the impact of various sociodemographic and psychosocial factors on the delayed reporting to Healthcare Professional (HCP) in oral and oropharyngeal cancer patients.
Conjunctivitis is the inflammation of the conjunctiva and has 4 main causes-viruses, bacteria, allergens, and irritants.
Among these, bacterial conjunctivitis is most common and is contagious, especially when the dentist is working with the infected person, and that person spreads the same to the other patient.
The diagnostic and prognostic usefulness of neuroimaging-based approaches has not been established in a clinical setting.
All RCTs of bupropion and methylphenidate reporting final outcomes relevant to 1) ADHD severity, 2) response or remission rates, 3) overall discontinuation rate, or 4) discontinuation rate due to adverse events.
Language restriction was not applied.
Evidence supports the hypothesis that patient treatment satisfaction will result in improved adherence; therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between patient treatment satisfaction and adherence to antidepressants, and the role of patient beliefs toward medication in patient treatment satisfaction.
Interprofessional teamwork is in many ways a norm in modern health care, and needs to be taught during professional education.
Clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) are propositions for health care providers about the care of patients and are usually described as "systematically developed statements to assist practitioners' and patients' decisions about appropriate health care for specific circumstances".
CAI participants utilize less muscle activity when performing functional exercises compared to healthy controls.
Several glenohumeral joint (GHJ) positions have been recommended for assessing and correcting posterior shoulder tightness (PST) however, there is no agreement on which position is better for differentiating posterior muscle tightness from posterior capsular tightness.
The purpose of this study was to compare the range of motion change before and after an external humeral rotator muscle fatigue protocol in order to identify a position that shows maximum range of motion change.
The optimal method for increasing shoulder ROM, improving performance, and preventing injury is unknown.
It is also unknown if treating the non-dominant arm may affect ROM on the dominant side.
Recent evidence supports the use on mobilizations directed at the ankle in patients who have suffered a LAS.
The Mulligan Concept of Mobilization-with-Movement (MWM) provides an intervention strategy for LASs, but requires pain-free mobilization application and little literature exists on modifications of these techniques.
Part 1 of this two-part series (presented in the June issue of IJSPT) provided an introduction to functional movement screening, as well as the history, background, and a summary of the evidence regarding the reliability of the Functional Movement Screen (FMS).
Part 1 presented three of the seven fundamental movement patterns that comprise the FMS, and the specific ordinal grading system from 0-3, used in the their scoring.
Specifics for scoring each test are presented.
Part 2 of this series provides a review of the concepts associated with the analysis of fundamental movement as a screening system for functional movement competency.
The final four patterns are described in detail, and the specifics for scoring each test are presented, as well as the proposed clinical implications for receiving a grade less than a perfect "3".
Part 2 concludes with a discussion of the evidence related to functional movement screening, myths related to the FMS, the future of functional movement screening, and the concept of movement as a system.
Crops in the USA are vulnerable to natural and criminal threats because of their widespread cultivation and lack of surveillance, and because of implementation of growing practices such as monoculture.
To prepare for investigation and attribution of such events, forensic assays, including determination of molecular profiles, are being adapted for use with plant pathogens.
The use of multi-locus variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) analysis (MLVA) and multi-locus sequence typing (MLST) in investigations involving plant pathogens may be problematic because the long lag periods between pathogen introduction and discovery of associated disease may provide enough time for evolution to occur in the regions of the genome employed in each assay.
Thus, more information on the stability of the loci employed in these methods is needed.
SDstandard deviationICHintracerebral hemorrhageNIHSSNational Institutes of Health Stroke ScaleTIAtransient ischemic attackICHintracerebral hemorrhagemRSmodified Rankin scale.
Cerebral vasospasm is a major cause of delayed ischemic cerebral injury, typically occurring 3-14 days after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).
Immediate vasospasm at the time of aneurysmal rupture has been suspected, but has not been previously reported.
We describe a case of immediate, transient vasospasm following intra-procedural aneurysmal rupture.
Endovascular embolization of ruptured intracranial aneurysms provides an adequate treatment and long-term results with less morbidity and mortality (M&amp;M) compared with surgical treatment.
Since the last decade more and more ruptured and unruptured intracranial aneurysms (IA) undergo endovascular embolization in the United States.
We present our experience of the initial one year periprocedural M&amp;M at Paul L. Foster School of Medicine (PLFSM), Texas Tech Health Science Center (TTUHSC) in El Paso, Texas.
ACAAnterior cerebral arteryAcommAnterior communicating arteryESNEndovascular surgical neuroradiologyH&amp;HHunt and Hess scaleIAIntracranial aneurysmICAInternal carotid arteryMCAMiddle cerebral arteryM&amp;MMorbidity and mortalitySAHSubarachnoid hemorrhagePcommPosterior communicating arteryPLFSMPaul L. Foster School of MedicineTTUHSCTexas Tech University Health Science CenterVAVertebral artery.
Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome was first described by Call, Fleming, and colleagues.
Clinically this entity presents acutely, with severe waxing and waning headaches ("thunderclap"), and occasional fluctuating neurological signs.
RCVSReversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndromeCTComputed tomographySAHSubarachnoid hemorrhageMRMagnetic resonanceCTAComputed tomography angiographyMRAMagnetic resonance angiography.
Telephone consent and two physician consents based on medical necessity are alternate strategies for time sensitive medical decisions but are not uniformly accepted for clinical practice or recruitment into clinical trials.
In order to take medications safely and effectively, individuals need to be able to see, read, and understand the medication labels.
We sought to design a mobile tool termed ClereMed that could rapidly screen for adults who have difficulty reading or understanding their medication labels.
Secondary prevention after acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is essential to reduce morbidity and mortality, but related studies have been fairly small or performed as clinical trials with non-representative patient selection.
Long-term follow-up data are also minimal.
A nurse-led follow-up for risk factor improvement may be effective, but the evidence is limited.
Vitiligo is an acquired depigmentary condition caused by inactivation or destruction of melanocytes in epidermis and hair follicle.
Widespread prejudice, ignorance, taboos, lack of scientific appraisal, and confusion of vitiligo with leprosy makes it an immense psychological stress.
The Food Safety and Standards Act have redefined the roles and responsibilities of food regulatory workforce and calls for highly skilled human resources as it involves complex management procedures.
Contamination of water, food, and environment with antibiotic-resistant bacteria poses a serious public health issue.
Assam's main lifeline, the Brahmaputra river, braided nature created numerous sand bars and islands known as chars/sapories.
They are home to more than 3 million people.
Over 90% of the cultivated land on the river islands is flood-prone; the flood leaves the islands completely separated from mainland, preventing access to health infrastructure and services.
The mobile-health approach is currently knocking the doors of public health to make use of this rapidly advancing technology in developing countries; therefore, it needs a critical look on its capacity in improving health system of developing countries.
It is now mandatory to screen all donated blood units, whether replacement or voluntary for five transfusion transmitted diseases-namely human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B and C, syphilis, and malaria.
Use of noninvasive ventilation (NIV) outside guideline recommendations is common.
We audited use of NIV in our tertiary care critical care unit (CCU) to evaluate appropriateness of use and patient outcomes when used outside level I recommendations.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a major cause of morbidity and mortality.
We sought to describe the epidemiology of non-invasive and invasive pneumococcal disease in a national Veterans Affairs population within the United States.
Vancomycin (VAN) failures associated with the treatment of complicated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections have been well described.
The reported "seesaw effect" demonstrates improved -lactam activity when VAN and/or daptomycin (DAP) susceptibility decreases.
However, there are minimal data comparing ceftaroline (CPT) susceptibility with these agents or teicoplanin (TEI).
Therefore, to further explore the seesaw effect, we evaluated the relationship between CPT and VAN, TEI, and DAP susceptibilities.
Antimicrobial prescribing in the emergency department is predominantly empiric, with final microbiology results either unavailable or reported after most patients are discharged home.
Systematic follow-up processes are needed to ensure appropriate antimicrobial therapy at this transition of care.
Additionally, infection characteristics and antimicrobial therapy were compared.
Cervical cancer is the most common cancer among Indian women.
Extracorporeal shockwave therapy (ESWT) is popular, and effective in the management of chronic tendon conditions in the elbow, shoulder, and pain at and around the heel.
On-site field notes were transcribed for analysis.
Work in hospitals is supported by contributions of life sciences industry representatives (IR) in various ways of fields.
Close contact between them, caretakers and patients is unavoidable, even in situations where hygiene is critical.
Nursing homes are increasingly introducing electronic health record (EHR) systems into nursing practice; however, there is limited evidence about the effect of these systems on nursing staff time.
There is a paucity of data regarding the feasibility and impact of community pharmacy-based educational interventions on the management of chronic diseases in developing countries.
Acne is typically regarded as an adolescent disease.
A significant body of literature suggests a post-adolescent or adult form of acne.
The very essential components of primary health care - promotion of food supply, proper nutrition, safe water and basic sanitation and provision for quality health information concerning the prevailing health problems - is largely ignored.
Access to healthcare services, provision of essential medicines and scarcity of doctors are other bottlenecks in the primary health care scenario.
Hypothyroidism is the most common endocrine disease that was seen in the clinical practice especially for family physicians.
Periodontal diseases, dental caries, malocclusion, and oral cancer are the most prevalent dental diseases affecting people in the Indian community.
Arsenic pollution in groundwater, used for drinking purposes, has been envisaged as a problem of global concern.
Treatment options for the management symptoms of chronic arsenicosis are limited.
Mitigation option available for dealing with the health problem of ground water arsenic contamination rests mainly on supply of arsenic safe water in arsenic-endemic region of Indo-Bangladesh subcontinent.
As a method of treatment for a dropped lens nucleus, which occurred during cataract surgery, the dropped lens nucleus was removed through the corneal wound without using pars plana vitrectomy (PPV).
After vitrectomy, the dropped lens nucleus was floated on the perfluorocarbon liquid (PFCL).
The floating lens nucleus was then phacoemulsified and aspirated.
During surgery, irrigation from the anterior chamber was performed.
This method was very effective for treatment of a dropped hard nucleus.
Men having sex with men (MSM) remain the largest high-risk group involved in on-going transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STI), including HIV, in the Netherlands.
As risk behaviour may change with age, it is important to explore potential heterogeneity in risks by age.
Methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2) is a protein that specifically binds methylated DNA, thus regulating transcription and chromatin organization.
Mutations in the gene have been identified as the principal cause of Rett syndrome, a severe neurological disorder.
Although the role of MECP2 has been extensively studied in nervous tissues, still very little is known about its function and cell type specific distribution in other tissues.
Smoking is the single largest preventable cause of disease and premature death and major tobacco related diseases like cancer costs India more than Rs.308.33 billion per year.
Cigarette smoking increases the total peripheral blood leukocyte count but its effect on other haematological parameters is largely unexplored..
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is one of the most common endocrine diseases of women.
Oxidative stress is an important component of the cardio-metabolic risk seen in these women.
Oxidative stress has been reported in obese PCOS women.
This study is taken up to study oxidative stress in non-obese PCOS women.
Pre-eclampsia (PE) affects approximately 3% of all pregnancies worldwide, with onset of symptoms in the late second or third trimester, commonly after 32(nd) week.
It is common in nulliparous women.
To avoid complications it is necessary to diagnose it in advance, but the available tools are unable to clinch the diagnosis of preeclampsia effectively in majority.
Reference data on serum prolactin levels based on a representative Indian sample are still lacking.
The western normative laboratory values used for clinical diagnosis may not be applicable to Indian population.
The objective of the study was to measure the serum prolactin levels in healthy Indian male and female in order to establish reference interval and to compare with the available reference intervals.
It is a cross- sectional study done in West Bengal, India.
Macrovascular and microvascular complications of diabetes mellitus are a consequence of metabolic derangement mainly hyperglycemia.
Diabetic nephropathy being one of them causes end stage renal disease.
Hence, to detect renal involvement, microalbuminuria can be considered as an early marker.
Carbapenem resistance is one of the major threats faced in antimicrobial treatment of infections caused by gram negative organisms.
In recent years, carbapenem resistance has emerged in Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates due to acquisition of carbapenemases which belong to Ambler class A KPC type enzymes or to Ambler class B metallo--lactamases (MBL).
Healthcare workers as well as healthy community-dwelling individuals may be colonised by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
Healthcare workers who carry MRSA may transmit it to patients, causing various nosocomial infections.
However, there is no literature on the current scenario in India.
The demand for plateletpheresis is increasing day by day due to its many merits over random donor platelets.
Cancer of the breast is one of the commonest carcinomas in women, both in western world and in India.
p53 is one of the most significant prognostic markers for breast carcinomas.
Using intubation difficulty scale (IDS) we made an attempt to objectively assess the predictors of difficult intubation.
We assessed classical bedside tests such as modified Mallampati test, Thyromental distance test and also neck extension test.
Recently, oxidative stress has become the focus of interest as a potential cause of male infertility.
Normally, equilibrium exists between reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and antioxidant scavenging activities in the male reproductive organs.
The ascorbic acid is a known antioxidant present in the testis with the precise role of protecting the latter from the oxidative damage.
It also contributes to the support of spermatogensis at least in part through its capacity to maintain antioxidant in an active state.
Poor nutritional status of tribal children observed in different parts of India, calls for introspection into various factors influencing it, in order to seek remedial measures.
Delirium or acute confusional state is an acute neuropsychiatric syndrome, with varied cognitive dysfunctions.
However, no comprehensive studies about this common condition have been carried out in India.
In the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy, sensory neuropathies have increased in prevalence.
Medical students today are tomorrow's future doctors.
One of the key skills that students should develop during their graduation training is to be prepared for emergency life saving measures like cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) anytime, anywhere.
The students play integral role in learning, mastering and inculcating the most pragmatic clinical skill of CPR.
Lesions of tissue rich in enzymes may cause enzymatic release on tissue destruction, so also in meningitis and many enzymes are known to be present in abundance in nervous system.
Study was conducted to establish an association between neck circumference and cardio metabolic syndrome.
Orbitozygomatic fracture that most commonly accompanies craniofacial injury is a challenge for medical science to reduce complications and to attain aesthetically satisfying results.
Tuberculosis is an important cause of morbidity in India.
Abdominal Tuberculosis is a great mimicker and is difficult to diagnose.
This study aims to document the nature of different types of acute presentation in Abdominal Tuberculosis according to involved sites and surgical pathology.
The study also discusses the indications and extent of surgical intervention.
Though the aetiology is obscure, recent studies indicate that serum levels of calcium and magnesium may have a role in pre-eclampsia.
Neonatal hypoglycemia is the most common carbohydrate metabolic disturbance seen in case of neonates and especially in preterm neonates.
Accurate and rapid determination of hypoglycemia and its prompt treatment is of utmost importance to decrease morbidity and mortality of neonates.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a common, life threatening neurologic disorder that is essentially an acute, prolonged epileptic crisis.
SE can represent an exacerbation of a pre-existing seizure disorder, the initial manifestation of a seizure disorder, or an insult other than a seizure disorder.
However, various maternal as well as perinatal factors can influence the cord blood TSH levels.
Neoplasia results from various genetic and epigenetic factors.
Our study focused on the pathogenesis which involved an imbalance in various molecular mechanisms which regulated cell proliferation and apoptosis.
The anti-apoptotic mechanism is regulated by Bcl-2 gene, while Ki-67 is expressed exclusively in nuclei of proliferating cells.
This study was done to evaluate the basic pathologic process which underlay well and poorly differentiated oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
They have previously been imaged by radiography which is very inaccurate.
Dental CT is an upcoming modality which very accurately images the teeth.
Responsible conduct of research requires a good knowledge about research ethics.
Intrusion of maxillary incisors is one of the most important and difficult tooth movements to achieve as a part of orthodontic therapy.
A variety of techniques were used in the past to intrude the maxillary incisors before the emergence of mini implants in Orthodontics.
Mini implants are temporary anchorage devices used to produce various tooth movements.
The research was carried out to evaluate and compare the efficiency of producing intrusion of maxillary incisors using mini implants, utility arch and j- hook headgear.
Dental caries and periodontal disease are the most prevalent dental disease among mentally retarded children worldwide.
Labial mucosa has elevations and depressions forming a pattern called 'Lip Prints'.
By initially understanding these effects, modifications to the loop design can essentially counteract the undesired affects.
The accurate replication of tooth preparations and their arch position requires impression materials that exhibit limited distortion.
On review of literature, there was no study which has tried diagnosing tuberculosis using saliva with flurochrome stain; hence the present study was designed.
Tissue conditioner is applied popularly with dental prosthesis during wound healing process but it becomes a reservoir of oral microbiota, especially Candida species after long-term usage.
Several antifungal drugs have been mixed with this material to control fungal level.
In this study, lemongrass essential oil was added into COE-COMFORT tissue conditioner before being determined for anti-Candida efficacy.
Various debonding methods include: the conventional methods that use pliers or wrenches, an ultrasonic method, electrothermal devices, air pressure impulse devices, diamond burs to grind the brackets off the tooth surface and lasers.
Recently, a New Debonding Instrument designed specifically for ceramic and composite brackets has been introduced.
As this is a new instrument, little information is available on efficacy of this instrument.
India has recently achieved the "Polio free status" by WHO with stringent efforts of the Health Ministry to control its spread.
However, we should not forget the lessons learnt from the failure of National malaria eradication Programme and National Tuberculosis control Programme which creates a need to assess the probable barriers for the various National Health Programmes.
The present article presents an overview of the Polio Eradication programme in India highlighting the lessons learnt from the past.
Also, it evaluates the reality behind full participation of Pulse Polio Programme.
Developmental defects of the enamel (D.D.E.)
The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence and distribution of D.D.E.
in the deciduous dentition of IVF children of West Bengal.
Apical migration of the gingival margin beyond the cement-enamel junction (CEJ) is called as gingival recession.
Sometimes these lesions may be associated with enamel abrasion.
Therefore, the aim of this paper is to propose the new classification of dental surface defects in gingival recession area.
National Institutes of Health.
No consensus or standard definition of educational quality has yet been agreed upon or developed.
Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation and IVF-ET.
Hypomethylation in long interspersed nucleotide element-1 (LINE-1) and high-degree microsatellite instability (MSI-high) in colorectal cancer (CRC) have been associated with inferior and superior survival, respectively; however, it remains uncertain whether the prognostic association of LINE-1 hypomethylation differs by MSI status.
We hypothesized that the adverse prognostic association of LINE-1 hypomethylation might be stronger in MSI-high CRCs than in microsatellite stable (MSS) CRCs.
Measuring eCo is rapid, non-invasive and inexpensive tool and correlate correctly with carboxyhemoglobin levels in blood.
Early therapeutic vasodilatory interventions have been shown to improve DGF, and modifications to immunosuppressive regimens may subsequently lessen its impact.
This pilot study assesses the potential applicability of perioperative non-invasive cardiac output monitoring (NICOM), transit-time flow monitoring (TTFM) of the transplant renal artery and pre-/perioperative thromboelastography (TEG) in the early prediction of DGF and perioperative complications.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of use of contact lenses to improve visual outcome after repair of traumatic corneal wounds.
Limbal stem cell (LSC) deficiency leads to corneal opacity due to a conjunctivalization of the corneal surface.
Bacterial pathogens in dental plaque are necessary for the development of periodontitis but this etiology alone does not explain all its clinicopathologic features.
Researchers have proven the role of certain viruses like herpes virus in periodontal disease which implies that other viral agents like human papilloma virus may also be involved.
There is a considerable intra and inter-individual variation in both width and thickness of the facial gingiva.
Hence, the aim of this study was to determine the variation in width and thickness of facial gingiva in the anterior segment with respect to age, gender and dental arch location.
Presence of furcation involvement indicates advanced periodontitis, and a potentially less-favorable prognosis, for the affected tooth and its diagnosis has always been an enigma.
The present study was carried out to measure and correlate the interdental and interradicular bone loss in patients suffering from periodontitis using radiovisuography (RVG) for the purpose of early furcation diagnosis.
Various periodontal procedures including the mucogingival procedures have been designed to enhance the esthetics.
The amount of gingival display of the patient is also an important parameter while considering the esthetics of the patient.
Till date, very few studies have been done in which the amount of gingival visibility have been determined.
So, the aim of this study was to evaluate the amount of visibility of gingiva during natural smile and forced smile in the patients visiting Himachal Dental College and Hospital.
The present study aims to evaluate and compare the ability of periosteum in intrabony defect regeneration.
Exposure to noise rich in low frequency components induces abnormal proliferation of extracellular matrix and collagens.
The previous studies have shown alterations in the periodontium of both humans and animals.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
Teva Pharmaceuticals.
Since the ophthalmological community adopted the use of intravitreal bevacizumab as an accepted off-label treatment for neovascular diseases, the amount of knowledge regarding its effects and properties has been increasing continually.
In the following case series, we describe the clinical presentation and outcomes of ten consecutive cases of patients developing mild-to-severe sterile intraocular inflammation after intravitreal bevacizumab and their management.
Peer-assisted learning (PAL) has become a well-accepted teaching method within medical education.
However, descriptions of on-ward PAL programs are rare.
A focus group analysis of a newly established PAL program on an internal medicine ward was conducted to provide insights into PAL teaching from a student perspective.
Although it is well established that African Americans (AA) experience greater social stressors than non-Hispanic Whites (NHW), the extent to which early life adversity and cumulative social stressors such as perceived discrimination, neighborhood violence, subjective social status, and socioeconomic status contribute to disparity in coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke between AA and NHW are not well understood.
Several studies showed that the implementation of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) ventilator bundle alone or with other preventive measures are associated with reducing Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia (VAP) rates.
However, the association with ventilator utilization was rarely examined and the findings were conflicting.
The differential diagnosis of sarcoidosis creates a challange due to tuberculosis also having lung and lymph node involvement.
Because both diseases show granulomatous inflammation, it may not be possible to distinguish tuberculosis and sarcoidosis in pathological specimens.
As a result of the complexity in the differential diagnosis of sarcoidosis and tuberculosis, new markers for differentiation are being investigated.
Therefore, this study was designed to determine the prevalence and predictors of sleepy driving, near-misses, and SRA among drivers in Saudi Arabia.
High affinity potassium transporters (HKTs) are located in the plasma membrane of the vessels and have significant influence on salt tolerance in some plants.
They exclude Na(+) from the parenchyma cells to reduce Na(+) concentration.
Despite many studies, the underlying regulatory mechanisms and the exact functions of HKTs within different genomic backgrounds are relatively unknown.
Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a prevalent disorder characterised by repetitive upper-airway obstruction during sleep, and it is associated with type 2 diabetes.
Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the primary treatment for OSA.
A FEW STUDIES HAVE REPORTED AN ASSOCIATION BETWEEN NADP(H): quinine oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) C609T polymorphism and susceptibility to colorectal cancer (CRC).
However, the results were inconsistent rather than conclusive.
We performed a meta-analysis to examine this association in various populations.
Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) have emerged as critical opportunistic pathogens of lung diseases recently.
The purpose of the study was to examine whether heart rate measurements based on short-term ECGs recorded at different periods of the day may correspond to the mean heart rate and rate irregularity analyzed from standard 24-hour Holter monitoring.
Measurement of pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) is essential in evaluating a patient with pulmonary hypertension.
The formation and collapse of vapor-filled bubbles near a mechanical heart valve is called cavitation.
Microbubbles can be detected in vivo by doppler ultrasonography (USG) as HITS (high intensity transient signals) in cranial circulation.
The complete Fontan circulation is the definite palliation for many complex congenital cardiac lesions.
After bi-directional Glenn anastomosis (BDG), two well-established techniques - intracardiac tunneling and extracardiac prosthesis - are available for completion, although the choice of technique is still a matter of debate.
There are many potential factors that can modulate bronchial reactivity, including exposure to allergens, viral infections, and medications.
The associations of radiological features with clinical and laboratory findings in Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection are poorly understood.
The purpose of this study was to assess the associations.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia.
Subcutaneous abdominal fat thickness (SCFT) is important for predisposition to metabolic and cardiovascular diseases.
Our aim was to evaluate maternal SCFT and metabolic changes (such as insulin resistance and high inflammatory markers) during pregnancy.
We aimed to evaluate pathological extraspinal findings and congenital anomalies/anatomical variations that were incidentally detected on the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of intervertebral discs, to find the frequencies of these incidental findings, and to emphasise the clinical importance of them.
Non-union of the tibia complicated by osteomyelitis is one of the most challenging problems in orthopaedic surgery.
There remains a significant amount of debate and controversy regarding the optimal medical management of infected tibial non-union.
There are few articles which have reported the outcomes of treatment for infected non-union of tibia from single-stage reconstruction with open bone grafting plus vacuum-assisted closure (VAC).
Pattern recognition receptor (PRR)-mediated signaling pathways have recently been elucidated to bridge the innate immune system and atherosclerosis.
At present, most studies about the NLRP3 inflammasome focus on animal models and immune cells.
Type 1 iodothyronine deiodinase (D1) converts thyroxin (T4) into tri-iodothyronine (T3).
Strong evidence indicates that thyroid hormone metabolism is disturbed in neoplasms such as thyroid and breast cancer.
However, there is limited data concerning the function of the D1 enzyme in liver tumors.
We aimed to estimate the enzymatic activity of D1 in two different common liver tumors.
We investigated the effects of ghrelin on protein expression of the liver antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutases (SODs), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and glutathione reductase (GR), nuclear factor B (NFB) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS).
Furthermore, we aimed to investigate whether extracellular regulated protein kinase (ERK1/2) and protein kinase B (Akt) are involved in ghrelin-regulated liver antioxidant enzymes and iNOS protein expression.
The authors evaluated the effect of ezetimibe on selected oxidative stress parameters in ischemic/reperfused (I/R) rat liver.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) is known to induce injuries to extrapancreatic organs.
This study aimed to investigate the potential role of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in the pathogenesis of APALI.
Bleeding can be a problem in wound debridement.
Speech problems are a common clinical feature of the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome.
The objective of this article is to evaluate clinical outcomes of combined orbital floor and medial wall fracture repair using a three-dimensional pre-bent titanium implant in an East Asian population.
Maintaining stability and restoring the aesthetic appearance are the fundamental goals when managing zygomatic fractures.
We aimed to evaluate the stability and anthropometric outcomes of zygomatic fracture patients who underwent two-point fixation involving the infraorbital rim and zygomaticomaxillary buttress via the transconjunctival and gingivobuccal approaches without any skin incisions.
Skin cancer is the most prevalent cancer by organ type and referral accuracy is vital for diagnosis and management.
The British Association of Dermatologists (BAD) and literature highlight the importance of accurate skin lesion examination, diagnosis and educationally-relevant studies.
Laryngeal allotransplantation (LA) is a technique involving transplantation of a deceased donor's larynx into a recipient, and it may be substituted for conventional laryngeal reconstruction.
Currently, breast conservation therapy is commonly performed for the treatment of early breast cancer.
Depending on the volume excised, patients may require volume replacement, even in cases of partial mastectomy.
The use of the latissimus dorsi muscle is the standard method, but this procedure leaves an unfavorable scar on the donor site.
We used an endoscope for latissimus dorsi harvesting to minimize the incision, thus reducing postoperative scars.
As the breast cancer incidence has increased, breast-conserving surgery has replaced total mastectomy as the predominant procedure.
However, centrally located breast cancers pose significant challenges to successful breast-conserving surgeries.
Therefore, we performed partial mastectomy and oncoplastic procedures on centrally located breast cancer as a means of partial breast reconstruction.
The authors examined and evaluated the functional and aesthetic usefulness of this reconstruction method.
In 2012, a new anatomic breast implant of form-stable silicone gel was introduced onto the Korean market.
The intended use of this implant is in the area of aesthetic breast surgery, and many reports are promising.
Thus far, however, there have been no reports on the use of this implant for breast reconstruction in Korea.
We used this breast implant in breast reconstruction surgery and report our early experience.
Patients having unilateral breast reconstruction often require a second stage procedure on the contralateral breast to improve symmetry.
In order to provide immediate symmetry and minimize the frequency and extent of secondary procedures, we began performing simultaneous contralateral balancing operations at the time of initial reconstruction.
This study examines the indications, safety, and efficacy of this approach.
Abdominal wall free flaps are used most frequently in autologous breast reconstruction, and these flaps require intact and robust deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) vessels.
Pfannenstiel incisions are often present during preoperative visits for breast reconstruction and could potentially signal compromised blood supply to the lower abdominal wall.
Nipple reconstruction following breast mound reconstruction is the final step in breast reconstruction.
Although nipple reconstruction is a simple surgery, the psychological aspects of nipple reconstruction are thought to be important.
In the present study, the Hammond flap technique was introduced for nipple reconstruction.
Groin dissections result in large wounds with exposed femoral vessels requiring soft tissue coverage, and the reconstructive options are diverse.
In this study we reviewed our experience with the use of the pedicled anterolateral thigh and vertical rectus abdominis musculocutaneous flaps in the reconstruction of large groin wounds.
Knee disarticulations (KD) are most commonly employed following trauma or tumor resection but represent less than 2% of all lower extremity amputations performed in the United States annually.
The purpose of this study is to describe technique modifications and report surgical outcomes following KDs at a high-volume Limb Salvage Center.
Disulfiram implantation is a widely used treatment alternative for alcohol abuse, yet reports on the surgical aspect of disulfiram implantation with respect to patient and drug-related treatment efficacy and wound complications are very limited.
We present our clinical experiences with disulfiram implantation and discuss the surgical outcomes obtained with different anatomical planes for implantation.
The senior author had observed sluggishness of eyelid closure, lagophthalmos as well as varying degrees of eye irritation in certain patients during the early postoperative period.
He postulated that these findings could be due to orbicularis muscle excision.
He therefore undertook a prospective study 27 years ago comparing standard blepharoplasty on one eyelid to skin-only excision on the fellow eyelid.
Non-attendance at medical appointments is associated with increased patient morbidity and is a significant drain on health service resources.
Australian studies have focused on secondary healthcare settings, screening, and interventions to reduce non-attendance.
The incidence varies according to the patient group and hospital setting.
Early diagnosis of VAP with appropriate antibiotic therapy can reduce the emergence of resistant organisms.
Current international guidelines recommend the commencement of effective eradication therapy as soon as active Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is confirmed.
At our institution, all positive Campylobacter-like Organism (CLO) test results were automatically communicated to general practitioners (GPs) via a standardised letter, which also advised the commencement of eradication therapy.
The Australian federal government has proposed an AUD $7 patient co-payment for a general practitioner (GP) consultation.
One effect of the co-payment may be that patients will seek assistance at public hospital emergency departments (EDs), where currently there is no user charge.
Cancer immunotherapy has recently entered a remarkable renaissance phase with the approval of several agents for treatment.
Moreover, technological advances in next-generation sequencing (NGS) as well as the development of devices for scanning whole-slide bioimages from tissue sections and image analysis software for quantitation of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) allow, for the first time, the development of personalized cancer immunotherapies that target patient specific mutations.
However, there is currently no bioinformatics solution that supports the integration of these heterogeneous datasets.
Glycemic control largely depends on compliance with medication therapies.
Isolation of extracellular vesicles from plasma is a challenge due to the presence of proteins and lipoproteins.
Isolation of vesicles using differential centrifugation or density-gradient ultracentrifugation results in co-isolation of contaminants such as protein aggregates and incomplete separation of vesicles from lipoproteins, respectively.
Flip-flops are an item of footwear, which are rubber and loosely secured across the dorsal fore-foot.
These are popular in warm climates; however are widely criticised for being detrimental to foot health and potentially modifying walking gait.
Contemporary alternatives exist including FitFlop, which has a wider strap positioned closer to the ankle and a thicker, ergonomic, multi-density midsole.
Additionally walking in a flip-flop was compared to that FitFlop alternative.
Recent studies suggest that the lifetime risk of developing a diabetic foot ulcer is as high as 25%.
The relationship between lipids and coronary artery disease has been well established.
However, this is not the case between lipids and heart failure.
Ironically, high lipid levels are associated with better outcomes in heart failure, but the mechanisms underlying the phenomenon are not fully understood.
This study was performed to test the hypothesis that reduced intestinal lipid absorption due to venous congestion may lead to low lipid levels.
Pocket hematoma is one of the major complications associated with cardiovascular implantable electronic devices (CIEDs) implantation.
Revascularization and statin therapy are routinely used in the management of stable coronary artery disease.
The function of FoxO transcription factors is regulated by post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation and acetylation.
In the present study FoxO1 protein expression, phosphorylation and acetylation as well as MuRF1 protein expression, were examined in atrophic and hypertrophic denervated skeletal muscle.
The macular region was scanned by swept-source optical coherence tomography in the 1,050-nm wavelength.
Automated segmentations of the retina and the choroid were used to obtain the corresponding thickness values.
Many factors affect the attainment of lipid level targets including gender, age, compliance, statin type, and dosage.
Safely obtaining vascular access in the pediatric population is challenging.
Recent studies have described neo-atherosclerosis, developing inside the stent, as cause of very late stent thrombosis.
High-intensity ultrasound pulses intermittently triggered from an ECG signal can interact with circulating contrast agent microbubbles to produce myocardial cavitation microlesions of potential therapeutic value.
High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) allows to inflict intracorporal thermal lesions without penetrating the skin or damaging the surrounding tissue.
This analysis intends to assess the magnitude of HIFU-induced ablations within benign thyroid nodules using scintigraphic imaging with (99m)Tc.
Prior researches have showed that weaning protocols may decrease the duration of mechanical ventilation.
The effect of these protocols on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients is unknown.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of an extensive mechanical ventilation protocol including weaning applied by a respiratory therapist (RT) on the duration of mechanical ventilation and intensive care unit (ICU) stay in COPD patients.
The major risk factor for reexpansion pulmonary edema (RPE) following the treatment of spontaneous pneumothorax is thought to be chronic lung collapse.
However, a long-term collapsed lung does not always cause RPE.
The aim of this study was to analyze the surgical outcomes of video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) lobectomy for benign pulmonary disease and to propose surgical guidelines based on the retrospective cohort study.
Small biopsy samples are generally considered inconclusive for bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (BOOP) diagnosis despite their potential to reveal organizing pneumonia (OP) pathologically, necessitating risky invasive tissue biopsy during surgery for reliable confirmation.
The aim of the present study was to explore the association between the pretreatment globulin albumin ratio (GAR) and the survival of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.
Piezoelectric nanogenerators can convert mechanical energy into electrical energy.
Our experiment tries to find out if the piezoelectric nanogenerator fixed to the surface of the heart can convert the natural contractions and relaxations of the heart into stable electric energy for electronic medical devices such as pacemakers.
Toxoplasmosis is a worldwide zoonosis caused by an obligate intracellular protozoan parasite, Toxoplasma gondii, that affects all warm-blooded animals, including wild animals.
Functional outcome was assessed using Visual Analogue Scale(VAS) and Constant-Murley Score.
Mean Constant-Murley score was 84.6 points (range: 61- 100) in Group 1 and - 76.4 points(range:56-100) in Group 2 at final follow up.
Values varied depending upon the fracture type with worst in 4-part fractures.
Mean VAS Score was 2.6(range:0-10) in Group 1 and 3.8(range:0-10) in Group 2.
We obtained satisfactory results in both the groups, with each procedure having its advantages and shortcomings.
We found that PHILOS plate fixation provided stable fixation with minimal implant problems and enabled early range-ofmotion exercises to achieve acceptable functional results.
Proximal humerus fractures, PHILOS plate and K-wires.
Proximal humeral fractures are considered the last unsolved fractures in orthopaedics.
The treatment is controversial and various operative modalities have been reported in the literature.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate functional outcome and complication rate after open reduction and internal fixation of displaced proximal humerus fractures by proximal humerus AO stainless steel T-plate.
Fractures were classified according to the Neer classification into displaced 2-part, 3-part, and 4-part fractures.
Patients were followed-up for a minimum period of two years.
Functional evaluation was done according to the Neer scoring system.
Scores were compared with other studies in the literature using similar implant.
Twenty patients had 2-part fracture, four had 3-part fracture, and one had 4-part fracture.
Eighty-eight [88% (n = 22)] patients had good to excellent result, eight [8% (n = 2)] had fair, and four [4% (n = 1)] had poor result.
Complications encountered in this series were screw backout in 8% (n = 2), superficial infection in 12% (n = 3), and avascular necrosis in 4% (n = 1) of cases.
We conclude that proximal humerus AO T- plate is a cheap and easily available implant, aspects which are particularly relevant in third world countries like India.
It gives reliable fixation for 2-part and 3-part fractures.
Proximal humerus fractures, proximal humerus stainless steel T-plate, unstable fracture.
A seven years retrospective study was performed in 45 consecutive vascular injuries in the extremities to investigate the pattern of injuries, managements and outcomes.
Popliteal and brachial artery injuries were commonly involved (20%).
Fifteen (33.3%) patients had fractures, dislocation or fracture dislocation around the knee joint and 6 (13.3%) patients had soft tissue injuries without fracture.
Associated nerve injuries were seen in 8 (17.8 %) patients using intra-operative findings as the gold standard, both conventional angiogram (CA) and computerized tomography angiogram (CTA) had 100% specificity and 100% sensitivity in determining the site of arterial injuries.
The mean ischemic time was 25.31 hours (4 - 278 hours).
The mean ischemic time in 39 patients who underwent revascularization within 24 hours was 13.2 hours.
Delayed amputation was performed in 5 patients (11.1%).
Of the 6 patients who underwent delayed revascularization, one patient had early amputation, one -had delayed amputation following infection and multiple flap procedures while the rest of the patients' limbs survived.
Joint stiffness was noted in 10 patients (22.2%) involving the knee joint, elbow and shoulder in two patients each.
Infection was also noted in 5 patients (11.1%) with two of them were due to infected implants.
Other complications encountered included nonunion (2 patients, 4.4%), delayed union (1 patient, 2.2%),limb length discrepancy (1 patient, 2.2%), hematoma (1 patient, 2.2%) and leaking anastomosis in one patient (2.2%).
Volkmann's ischemic contracture occurred in 3 (6.7%) patients.
There was no complication noted in 8 (17.8%) patients Three patients (6.7%) died of whom two were not due to vascular causes.
We conclude that early detection and revascularization of traumatic vascular injuries is important but delayed revascularization also produced acceptable results.
Psychosocial Factors; Hip Fracture Outcome; Biopsychosocial; Hip Surgery; Psychosocial Background.
The computed probability of survival of octogenarians who had surgery was approximately 11 months.
Delay in surgery of more than two weeks significantly decreased the distance travelled at one year.
The overall recovery is correlated to preinjury level of ambulation and delay in surgery.
Forty-eight out of 53 patients (91%) were able to complete the follow-up schedule, while five patients died.
The mean CMS improved progressively at three (51.3), six (60.4), and 12 (61.3) months.
The mean DASH also improved progressively at three (38.8), six (34.8), and 12 (32.6) months.
For both groups, the CSS and DASH improved significantly from three to six months and from three to 12 months.
However, the improvements were not significant from just six to 12 months.
Between the two groups, the results at three, six, and 12 months were not significantly different from each other.
On final follow-up, 42 out of 48 patients (88%) were satisfied with their outcome and reported that they would choose to undergo the same treatment if they had to do everything all over again.
Conservative management of displaced two-part fractures of the humeral neck in elderly patients is a safe, efficacious, and acceptable treatment.
Primary Tuberculosis of wrist joint and carpal bone is rare, and when occurring it usually affects adults.
We present a case of isolated tuberculosis of capitate bone; which was confirmed with intra-osseous tissue histopathological examination in a skeletally immature 12-year old boy.
There was no signs of reactivation seen at follow-up 18 months after treatment.
The aim of this paper is to document a rare case of construct failure in a 68-year old Filipina who sustained an atypical femoral fracture (AFF) in her left subtrochanteric area.
Six months postoperatively, she began to experience progressive pain in her operated thigh.
Radiographs revealed a broken nail at the proximal screw hole and non-union of the AFF.
She had radiographic and clinical union and was full weight bearing after three months.
We sought to study the result of surgical treatment of displaced mid-shaft fracture of clavicle.
The follow-up period varied from 6 months to 24 months.
Fracture union occurred in all patients (average union time 8.5 weeks).
Superficial infection developed in one patient and implant was a problem in one patient.
Constant scores were excellent in the study group and 96% of the patients were satisfied with the operation.
Surgical treatment in displaced fractures of the clavicle in our study produces satisfactory results.
Displaced, clavicle fracture, mid shaft and plating.
Background :Accidental needle-stick injuries (NSIs) are a hazard for health-care workers and general public health.
Among them six (18.8%) were specialist, 12(37.5%) medical officer, 10 (31.2%) house officer and four staff nurses (12.5%).
Among the respondents 142 (92.8%) had been immunized against Hepatitis B and 148 (96.7%) participants had knowledge regarding universal precaution.
Needle sticks injury, health care workers, and standard precaution.
All patients were followed up to union of fractures and complications thereafter if any.
femoral neck fractures, screw fixation.
The patient characteristics and details of clinical conditions were obtained from records.
Clinical and radiographic follow-ups were done at one, two, four and 6 months intervals, and at one year.
The primary outcome studied included fracture union and functional ambulatory status.
Fourteen patients (53.9%) had sustained AO type 32B fractures, the majority in motor vehicle accidents.
Twenty-two fractures (84.6%) achieved union, while sixpatients (23.1%) had complications such as broken plate, varus collapse, and broken screw.
Four patients (15.4%) underwent a second operation.
At the end of the follow-ups, 25 patients (96.2%) were community ambulators.
We conclude that PF-LCP is an effective alternative treatment for subtrochanteric fractures when properly performed.
Subtrochateric fracture, Proximal Femur Locking Compression Plate (PF-LCP), Outcome, Complication, Cerclage wire.
This study aimed at evaluating the medial approach for open reduction and internal fixation of Gartland type 3 displaced supracondylar fractures of humerus in children.
The mean follow-up was 12 months and patients were assessed according to Flynn's criteria.
No patients had post-operative ulnar nerve injury.
Cubitus varus was not seen in any patient.
Superficial pin tract infection occurred in three patients that subsided with anti-septic dressings and antibiotics.
No deep infection occurred.
88.09 % patients showed satisfactory results as per Flynn's criteria.
The medial approach provides an excellent view of the supracondylar area.
Type 3 supracondylar fracture humerus, medial approach, crossed K-wire fixation, medial column comminution.
Taylor's spatial frame (TSF) and Ilizarov external fixators (IEF) are two circular external fixator commonly used to address complex deformity and fractures.
There is currently no data available comparing the biomechanical properties of these two external fixators.
TSF rings with 6 oblique struts, 4 tube connectors, 4 threaded rods, and 6 threaded rods were compared to a standard IEF rings with 4 threaded rods.
Compression and torsional loading was performed to the frame as well as construct with Polyvinylchloride tubes.
TSF rings with 4 tube connectors had the highest stiffness (3288 N/mm) while TSF rings with 6 struts was the least stiff.
The situation was reversed for torsion where TSF rings with 6 oblique struts had the highest torsional stiffness (82.01 Nm/Degree) and frame Ilizarov rings with 4 threaded rods the least.
Standard TSF construct of two ring with 6 oblique struts have better torsional stiffness and lower axial stiffness compared to the standard IEF.
Taylor's Spatial Frame, Ilizarov External Fixator, Biomechanical properties.
The management of post-radiation wound breakdown over the posterior cervico thoracic region can be a challenging task for a surgeon.
The aim of the treatment is to produce a well vascularized and a low tensile flap which will close a large defect.
This flap minimizes the disruption of the scapula-thoracic function while preserving the range of movement over the shoulder.
From the literature review, it was noted that the dorsal scapular artery (DSA) and transverse cervical artery (TCA) aid in the blood supply to the trapezius muscle and prevent local necrosis during rotation of the flap.
The trapezius flap is widely accepted because of the minor donor site morbidity, large arc of rotation and adequate blood supply.
lower trapezius flap, scapula-thoracic function, postradiation necrosis.
Hemagioma arising in the knee is a rare cause of knee swelling.
The diagnosis frequently is delayed for long.
Haemangioma,knee joint,Swelling.
Scapulothoracic dissociation is a rare injury involving separation of scapula from the thorax along with the upper extremity.
Majority of the patients have concomitant neurovascular injury and the prognosis is uniformly poor in such cases.
We present a case of scapulothoracic dissociation with comminuted fracture of scapula and acromioclavicular joint disruption without neurovascular deficit.
There were associated avulsion fractures of the spinous processes of vertebrae (T3-T5).
Such presentation is rare in an already rare scapulothoracic dissociation injury.
A discussion regarding the probable mechanism of injury, management and prognosis is presented.
scapulothoracic dissociation, scapula fracture, brachial plexus injury, vascular injury.
Postoperative wound infection in an instrumented spine patient is often disastrous.
Management includes implant removal leading to spine instability.
After careful debridement of the wound, the implant became exposed.
In conclusion, the NPWT is a good alternative in postoperative wound management especially in an instrumented spine patient.
vacuum assisted closure, infection, instrumentation, spine.
Empirically, he was started on intravenous C-penicillin and cloxacillin after initial joint aspiration yielded only synovial fluid with negative culture.
Subsequent MRI revealed acute osteomyelitis of the proximal left humerus with concurrent septic arthritis of the shoulder joint.
Cultures from the arthrotomy washout grew Salmonella sp, sensitive to ampicillin.
He recovered following six weeks of intravenous unasyn ( ampicillin and sulbactum).
salmonella osteomyelitis, non-sickle cell disease, children.
Conventional chondrosarcomas rarely metastasize and it is extremely unusual to see multicentric- behaviour in malignant cartilage tumour.
We report a 40 year old lady with presentation of two non-contiguous metachronous foci of low to intermediate grade of chondrosarcoma over left pelvic bone and right scalp respectively in the absence of pulmonary or visceral metastasis.
vacuum assisted closure, infection, instrumentation, spine.
Shoulder impingement syndrome and acromioclavicular joint osteoarthritis often occur simultaneously and easily missed.
Kay et al.
Arthroscopic treatment of these disorders produces more favourable results than open procedures.
Acromioclavicular joint arthritis, distal clavicle excision, Arthroscopy, Mumford operation.
Pathological lesions in and around a joint can arise from underlying dermis, subcutis, deep muscle, bone or synovium.
Clinical presentation can include joint pain, joint swelling, palpable masses and mechanical restriction.
Whilst giant cell tumour of tendon sheath, pigmented villonodular synovitis, synovial chondromatosis, lipoma arborescens, juxta articular myxomas and inflammatory arthritis are the better-known conditions of the joint.
Intra-articular nodular fasciitis, on the other hand, is less well recognized both clinically and radiologically.
It is rarely seen in routine practice and is only described in case reports in the literature.
Due to the non-specific clinical and radiological findings as well as the unfamiliarity with the entity, the diagnosis of intra-articular nodular fasciitis is usually clinched only after histological examination.
We present a case of intra-articular nodular fasciitis arising in the knee joint which was not suspected clinically or radiologically.
Intra-articular, nodular fasciitis, joint, knee, MRI.
Previous reports describe sterilization using thermal or chemical methods.
extruded bone, reimplantation, gamma sterilization.
Trisomy 14 mosaicism is a rare chromosomal abnormality.
It is associated with multiple congenital anomalies.
We report a 15year-old female with an unusual karyotype with three cell lines: 47,XX,+mar/47,XX,+14/46,XX.
At six months old she had short stature, cleft palate, hyperpigmented linear spots in arms and legs and developmental delay.
At present, she has mild facial dysmorphism and moderate mental retardation.
Recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities play an important role in diagnosis, classification and prognosis of AML.
However, several chromosomal abnormalities have not been completely determined or characterized, primarily because of their low incidence and limited amount of data.
Superior photon absorption in ordered nanowire arrays has been demonstrated recently.
However, systematic studies are still missing to explore the limits of their implementation as functional photonic devices.
With emphasis on silicon nanowires, we investigated the effects of nanowire diameter, length, morphology, and pitch on the photon absorption within the visible solar spectrum based on simulations.
Our results reveal that these parameters are crucial but disclose a path to improve the absorbance drastically.
78.40.Fy; 78.67.Uh; 78.67.-n.
We perform first-principles calculations of mechanical and electronic properties of silicene under uniaxial strains.
Poisson's ratio and the rigidity of silicene show strong chirality dependence under large uniaxial strains.
The ultimate strains of silicene with uniaxial strain are smaller than those with biaxial strain.
We find that uniaxial strains induce Dirac point deviation from the high-symmetry points in the Brillouin zone and semimetal-metal transitions.
Therefore, no bandgap opens under the uniaxial strain.
Due to its peculiar structure and variable sp (3)/sp (2) ratio of the chemical bond, the deviation directions of Dirac points from the high-symmetry points in the Brillouin zone and variation of Fermi velocities of silicene exhibit significant difference from those of graphene.
Fermi velocities show strong anisotropy with respect to the wave vector directions and change slightly before the semimetal-metal transition.
We also find that the work function of silicene increases monotonously with the increasing uniaxial strains.
61.46.-w; 62.20.D-; 73.22.Dj.
The role of brain metabolites as biological correlates of the intensity, symptoms, and course of major depression has not been determined.
Previous studies have demonstrated that obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with abnormal brain structural deficits.
Asthma is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the bronchial airways.
Well defined treatment options for asthma are very few.
The role of vitamin D3 on asthma is still baffling.
Paracetamol; a cyclooxygenase inhibitor; acts through the central nervous system as well as serotoninergic system as a nonopioid analgesic.
A prospective, double-blinded, and randomized-controlled study was carried out to compare the efficacy of preoperative 1g intravenous (iv) paracetamol with placebo in providing postoperative analgesia in head-neck cancer surgery.
The plant Albizia amara (Roxb.)
Boiv.
bark was used in traditional medical practices of India to treat cardiovascular diseases.
Hyperlipidemia is the greatest risk factor of coronary heart disease.
Malaria is a mosquito-borne disease caused by parasitic protozoa from the genus of Plasmodium.
The protozoans have developed resistance against many of current drugs.
It is urgent to find an alternative source of new antimalarial agent.
In the effort to discover new antimalarial agents, this research has been conducted on Plectranthus amboinicus.
Oxidative stress plays a major role in the pathogenesis of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS).
Keeping in view the proven antioxidant activity of Triticum aestivum L., this study has been undertaken to explore the potential therapeutic benefit of this plant in the treatment of CFS.
Diabetes mellitus is a metabolic syndrome exaggerated by stress conditions.
Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) impairs the insulin signaling pathway making the diabetic conditions worsen.
Pharmacological agents are supplied externally to overcome this malfunction.
Ginsenosides from Panax ginseng C.A Meyer possesses many pharmacological properties and are used for the treatment of diabetes.
L-citrulline is an amino acid discovered in watermelon (Citrullus lanatus, Cucurbitaceae) and is a known component of the nitric oxide (NO) cycle that plays an important role in adjusting blood circulation and supplying NO and a key component of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor.
Ledebouria is a genus of deciduous or weakly evergreen bulbs in the Hyacinthaceae family.
This is recognized as the first collection made of the new taxon Ledebouria hyderabadensis, exist in the Hyderabad city of Andhra Pradesh, India.
Plumbago rosea is used in traditional systems of medicine for the preparation of formulations used for treating inflammations, cough, bronchitis, and gastrointestinal disorders, and also in conjunction with cancer chemotherapy.
In the present study, the cytotoxic and anti-proliferative effects of plumbagin, and the ethanolic root extract of P. rosea (ETPR) was evaluated on SK-MEL 28 melanoma cell lines and human lymphocytes.
Antioxidants from natural sources have a major role in reversing the effects of oxidative stress and promoting health, growth and productivity in animals.
Local drug delivery (LDD) systems have been proposed for the treatment of periodontitis.
Curcumin could be a suitable agent as LDD for the treatment of periodontitis.
Garlic (Allium sativum) has been known to exhibit a wide range of pharmacological activities which are attributed mainly to the organosulfur compounds present in it.
Allicin and garlic oil, components obtained from garlic, have been explored and found to be biologically active on various fronts.
Allicin is known to have major stability issues due to rapid degradation even at low temperatures, whereas garlic oil, being lipophilic, shows poor bioavailability after oral administration.
Different therapeutic regimens were used for eradication of Helicobacter pylori, based on the cost, effectiveness and patient's compliance.
Cnidoscolus quercifolius is a species popularly known as favela and faveleira, and belonging to the Caatinga biome (semi-arid vegetation, Brazil), where is used in folk medicine as an anti-inflammatory.
The common treatment for cancer is unfavorable because it causes many detrimental side effects, and lately, there has been a growing resistance toward anticancer drugs, which worsens the future of cancer treatment.
Therefore, the focus has now shifted toward natural products, such as spices and plants, among many others, to save the future of cancer treatment.
Cloves (Syzygium aromaticum L.) are spices with the highest antioxidant content among natural products.
Besides acting as an antioxidant, cloves also possess many other functions, such as anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, and antiseptic, which makes them an ideal natural source to be developed as an anticancer agent.
Extracranial carotid artery pseudoaneurysms are rare cases resulting from trauma, mycotic infection, head and neck carcinomas or complications related to their treatment.
Trauma is the most common cause of carotid artery pseudoaneurysms.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a deadly parasitic diseases caused by Leishmania donovani; it is a major health problem in many countries.
Comparative plasma proteomics are a relatively useful technique that can be used to investigate disease-associated alterations that can help in understanding host responses against pathogens, and might be useful in disease management and diagnosis.
Protein phosphorylation is considered a key event in signal transduction.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) are a critical component of the immune system.
The analysis of PBMCs phosphoproteome might help elucidate the signaling pathways essential to their biological role in health, immunological diseases and cancer.
Enrichment of phosphoproteins becomes a prerequisite for phosphoproteome analysis and conventionally requires a multi-step procedure and sophisticated equipments.
In this study, we standardized 2D-PAGE phosphoproteome analysis of PBMCs and compared two phosphoprotein enrichment methods, lanthanum chloride precipitation and affinity micro-column.
Further, the different specificity for PBMCs phosphorylated proteins of each method was investigated.
Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignant tumor, and gastric cancer is the second most common cause of cancer mortality worldwide.
Quality-of-life assessment helps to define its determining factors as well as the efficiency of surgical procedures.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is used in the diagnosis and therapy of biliary tract diseases.
The ERCP is an invasive procedure that does not increase complications in the elderly.
Few studies have assessed the safety of ERCP in the elderly.
Life expectancy is rising, which causes an increasing demand for ERCP in the elderly.
Antibodies reacting with various microbial epitopes have been described in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and are associated with a specific diagnosis and clinical presentation.
Haemorrhoids are one of the most common reasons that patients seek consultation from a colon and rectal surgeon.
Human amniotic membrane is a versatile tool for management of ocular surface disorders.
This study evaluates the effect of cryopreserved human amniotic membrane (hAM) on one-year survival of penetrating keratoplasties (PKP) in high-risk recipients.
The standard technique of Peribulbar block is to use 25g 25mm needle at the junction between the lateral one third and medial two third of the lower orbital rim in the infero-temporal quadrant of the orbit.
This study describes the anatomy of the orbital structures with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using the three-dimensional constructive interference in steady state (3D CISS) sequence to present a morphological basis for needle entry at 12.5 and 25mm lengths.
Statistical comparisons were performed at the 12.5 versus 25mm depths.
Statistical significance was indicated by P&lt;0.05.
Furthermore, with adding the amounts of MWCNTs, the density of carbon nanotube (CNT)-CNT junctions among the fibers increased accordingly.
When the MWCNT content was of 1.2wt.%, a stable three-dimensional conducting network was formed.
After this percolation threshold, the density of CNT-CNT junctions among the fibers tended to be a constant quantity, leading to a stabilized conductivity consequently.
It is hoped that our results can be helpful for the fabrication of flexible devices, piezoelectric devices, force transducer, and so on.
81.05.Qk; 81.16.-c.
Inkjet printing technique is exploited for the synthesis of Ag nanoparticles (NPs) patterned on electrochemically etched silicon-based substrates.
The nanostructure morphology, here analyzed by scanning electron microscopy, is dictated by the ink composition and the printing parameters.
Under suitable excitation conditions, resonant surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) performed on such metal-dielectric nanostructures can approach single-molecule detection as recently demonstrated on silvered porous silicon synthesized by immersion plating.
78.67.Bf; 78.30.-j.
We describe a simple mechanical approach for low-density polyethylene film coating by multilayer graphene.
We report on the temperature dependence of electrical resistance behaviors in films of different thickness.
The experimental results suggest that the semiconducting behavior observed at low temperature can be described in the framework of the Efros-Shklovskii variable-range-hopping model.
The obtained films exhibit good electrical conductivity and transparency in the visible spectral region.
72.80.Vp; 78.67.Wj; 78.66.Qn; 85.40.Hp.
As the elderly population continues to expand, it becomes increasingly important to develop treatments to improve wound healing in the elderly.
One problem limiting the research is the lack of appropriate animal models for wound healing in elderly patients.
We hypothesized that the Klotho mouse of premature aging is a suitable animal model to shed light on many of the biological processes involved in aging skin.
One of the primary benefits of breast conserving therapy (BCT) is the potential ability to preserve the aesthetic appearance of the breast.
However, current literature and clinical experience suggest that the aesthetic benefits of BCT may not be equally shared among ethnic groups.
This is a pilot study that uses novel techniques to evaluate the cosmetic outcomes of African American and white women following BCT.
Orbital blowout fractures can be managed by several surgical specialties including plastic and maxillofacial surgery, otolaryngology, and ophthalmology.
Nipple sparing mastectomy (NSM) can be performed for prophylactic mastectomy and the treatment of selected breast cancer with oncologic safety.
The risk of skin and nipple necrosis is a frequent complication of NSM procedure, and it is usually related to surgical technique.
However, the role of the breast morphology should be also investigated.
Various methods for primary repair of bilateral cleft lip have been developed, but they often produce inadequate results, such as an upturned nose or a short columella.
Dermal regenerate templates are currently widely used in both adult and pediatric burn reconstruction.
The aim of this study is to report the safety and efficacy of pediatric nasal defect reconstruction using regenerative templates/full-thickness skin grafts.
When a tumor in the lateral eyebrow region is resected, reconstruction of the eyebrow and upper eyelid defects is necessary.
We perform simultaneous reconstruction of such defects; sideburn hair is included on an extended lateral orbital flap.
A palatal fistula is a common complication of cleft palate repair.
Although a buccal musculomucosal flap (BMMF) is effective for fistula repair, it does have the following problems: a second operation may be required to release the pedicle on the oral side and unilateral BMMF cannot close mucosal defects of both the nasal and oral sides.
A novel fistula closure method using the folded BMMF (f-BMMF) invented by the authors is presented.
However, when the advanced maxilla has excessive clockwise rotation and shifts more downward vertically than planned, it might be impossible to pull it up to correct it.
We invented devices attached to external distraction systems that can control the vertical vector of distraction to resolve this problem.
The purpose of this article is to describe the result of utilizing the distraction system for syndromic craniosynostosis.
With the reintroduction of shaped silicone gel implants in the United States, questions regarding indications and outcomes for each are likely.
The purpose of this article is to review the author's early experience using shaped and round implants for breast reconstruction over a 14-month consecutive interval.
Tissue expanders have become established instruments for scalp reconstruction.
However, selection of the size of the expander has not been investigated systematically, and it generally depends on the experience of the surgeon.
AlloDerm, a brand of acellular dermal matrix, is commonly used as an internal hammock to support the tissue expander or permanent implant in breast reconstruction.
The aim of our study is to evaluate the complication rates associated with the freeze-dried (FD) AlloDerm and the ready-to-use (RTU) AlloDerm.
This study was aimed to establish a consistent lower limb lymphedema animal model for further investigation of the mechanism and treatment of lymphedema.
-Tricalcium phosphate (-TCP) is used clinically as a bone substitute, but complete osteoinduction is slow.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is important in bone regeneration, but the biological effects are very limited because of the short half-life of the free form.
Incorporation in gelatin allows slow release of growth factors during degradation.
The present study evaluated whether control-released bFGF incorporated in -TCP can promote bone regeneration in a murine cranial defect model.
Prolonged bed rest and elevation have traditionally been considered necessary after free-flap transfer to the lower extremities.
In this retrospective study, we tried to mobilize patients early after free-flap transfer to the lower extremity by means of flow-through anastomosis for both arteries and veins.
Even though vascular malformations are well categorized, further details are relatively unknown.
Of treated patients regarding the frequency, demographic distributions, and other related factors by multivariate regression analyses in proportion to total vascular malformations, methods of treatment and how to manage them have not been elucidated thoroughly.
Distal radius fractures (DRFs) are one of the most common injuries among the elderly, resulting in significant expense and disability.
The local skin flap procedure is very useful for reconstruction.
However, flap necrosis caused by circulatory failure can occur at its distal portion.
Hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) in endothelial cells (ECs) help to maintain ECs and promote vascularization, and HIF-2 is abundantly expressed in ECs.
However, the mechanisms of action of HIF-2 in ECs are not yet fully understood.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the in vivo effects of overexpression of HIF-2 in ECs on skin flap survival.
Abdominal wall, one of the most commonly transplanted composite tissues, is less researched and lacking animal models.
Its clinical necessities were emphasized in multiple case series to reconstruct large abdominal defects.
Previous animal models have only studied components of the abdominal wall transplant.
We describe findings from a new model that more likely reflect clinical transplantation.
Multicenter prospective studies assessing the safety and efficacy of silicone gel breast implants are relatively rare.
Eurosilicone S.A.S.
present their safety and efficacy data herein for the largest European silicone gel breast implant study published to date.
Angle resection, corticectomy, and tubercle excisions are the most commonly used methods of mandibuloplasty.
However, no data are available on complications following mandibuloplasty.
This study aimed to determine the prevalence and significance of intra- and postoperative complications associated with mandibuloplasty.
However, preoperative irradiation increases the complication rate and thus some consider preoperative radiotherapy a relative contraindication to alloplastic alone reconstruction.
When recipient veins for free-flap breast reconstruction are unavailable or inadequate, vein grafts or cephalic vein transposition (CVT) an option to provide alternate venous outflow.
We hypothesize that the CVT is as reliable as vein grafts when indicated.
The potential of a new freestyle pedicle flap for ischial lesions, an internal pudendal artery perforator (iPap) thigh flap, was examined through anatomical and theoretical analyses and a case series using computed tomography angiography.
This article reports on the bilateral lip mucosa flaps (BLMFs) for reconstruction of the vermilion tubercle of the corrected cleft lip deformity.
The evolution of surgical breast cancer treatment has led to the oncologically safe preservation of greater amounts of native skin, yet we are still often using flaps with large skin paddles, thereby resulting in significant donor-site scars.
This explains the increasing appeal of acellular dermal matrix reconstructions.
Acellular dermal matrices can, however, have significant problems, particularly if there is any vascular compromise of the mastectomy skin flaps.
We have developed a method of raising the latissimus dorsi flap through the anterior mastectomy incisions without requiring special instruments or repositioning.
This can provide autologous vascularized cover of the prosthesis.
Joint scar contractures are characterized by tight bands of soft tissue that bridge the 2 ends of the joint like a web.
Classical treatment methods such as Z-plasties are mainly based on 2-dimensional designs.
Our square flap method is an alternative surgical method that restores the span of the web in a stereometric fashion, thereby reconstructing joint function.
Paralytic ectropion patients suffer from impairment of function and appearance of the lower eyelid and are at high risk of developing an exposure keratitis.
A canthoplasty procedure can reduce the horizontal eyelid laxity and elevate the lower eyelid.
We used a periosteal flap from the outer orbit to create a new canthal ligament.
Hyperbaric oxygenation has been used for various purposes, but its clinical application is limited due to its pulmonary toxicity.
Porcine and bovine acellular dermal matrices (PADM and BADM, respectively) are the most commonly used biologic meshes for ventral hernia repair.
We hypothesize that this difference is, in part, related to intrinsic mechanical properties of the matrix substrate and source material.
Pertinent findings of two national breast reconstruction (BR) surveys from two different institutions at two separate times (2012 vs 2010) were analyzed for comparison.
Treatments for cosmetically unpleasing periocular and lateral temporal veins are limited.
Although platelet-rich plasma (PRP) is nowadays a common method in various medical fields, including cosmetic surgery or dermatology, the expensiveness of the kit for processing is still a hurdle.
The embryologic fusion planes might be related with the sites of onset of basal cell carcinoma (BCC), thus supporting an embryologic role for its pathogenesis.
Smoke inhalation is a major source of morbidity and mortality.
Heparin and N-acetylcysteine treatment has potential efficacy in inhalation injury.
Maxillofacial trauma can be quite common, sometimes requiring prolonged hospitalization and invasive procedures.
To characterize soccer-related facial fractures needing surgery in 2 major Brazilian Centers.
We consider the use of dermal matrix associated with a skin graft to cover deep wounds in the extremities when tendon and bone are exposed.
The objective of this article was to evaluate the efficacy of covering acute deep wounds through the use of a dermal regeneration template (Integra) associated with vacuum therapy and subsequent skin grafting.
There has been a recent interest in injecting large body and face areas with local anesthetic in a minimally painful manner.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has not yet been established systematically to detect structural muscular changes after facial nerve lesion.
The use of pediatric CT that had recently emerged as a valuable imaging tool has increased rapidly with an annual growth estimated at about 10% per year.
The purposes of this study are to: (i) to measure the radiation dose and estimate the effective doses to pediatric patients during CT for chest, abdomen and brain.
Meningiomas are the second most common intraspinal tumors, constituting ~25% of all intraspinal tumors; however, in the context of extradural spinal lesions, the diagnosis of meningioma is an uncommon one.
Purely extradural spinal meningiomas, especially of the en plaque variety, frequently mimic metastatic disease and may result in inadequate therapy.
The use of multidisciplinary in-hospital teams limits adverse events (AE), improves outcomes, and adds to patient and employee satisfaction.
Fibrin sealants (FS)/glues (FG) are primarily utilized in spinal surgery to either strengthen repairs of elective (e.g., intradural tumors/pathology) or traumatic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistulas.
Here, additional roles/benefits of FS/FG in spine surgery are explored; these include increased hemostasis, reduction of scar, reduction of the risk of infection if impregnated with antibiotics, and its application to restrict diffusion and limit some of the major complications attributed to the controversial "off-label" use of bone morphogeneitc protein (rhBMP-2/INFUSE).
Minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MI-TLIF) is commonly used for the treatment of degenerative lumbar spinal disorders.
New neurological postoperative complications may be underreported.
Here we add to the list of risks by showing how often preoperative ESI lead to punctate cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistulas documented during subsequent surgery (e.g.
multilevel laminectomies with non-instrumented fusions).
Traumatic thoracolumbar spinal fractures represent approximately 65% of all traumatic spinal fractures and are frequently associated to permanent disability with significant social and economic impact.
We evaluated the neurological improvement related to the preoperative neurological conditions and the anatomic level of spinal cord injury.
Although spinal meningiomas respond favorably to surgical excision, their surgical management is impacted by several factors.
This study utilized a surgery-based grading system to discuss the optimal surgical strategy.
Osteoporosis is predominantly a condition of the elderly.
Posterior, atlantoaxial (AA) fusions of the cervical spine may include either standard (26 mm) or short (16 mm) C2 pedicle screws.
Spinal schwannomas are benign tumors arising from the spinal nerve root sheaths and are the commonest intradural extramedullary spinal tumors.
Although fibrin sealants (FSs) and fibrin glues (FGs) are predominantly utilized to strengthen repairs of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistulas (deliberate/traumatic) during spinal surgery, they are also increasingly utilized to achieve hemostasis.
On the basis of an institutional audit, the authors published an individual patient-based protocol for preoperative arrangement of blood products in patients undergoing elective spine arthrodesis.
The present study was conducted for the prospective validation of the proposed protocol in reducing cross match to transfusion ratio, and its implications on overall cost.
Ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL) and cervical disc herniation are commonly encountered neurosurgical conditions.
Here we present an unusual case of nontraumatic rapidly progressive myelopathy due to cervical disc herniation with comorbid OPLL and conduct a literature review focusing on the frequency and management of disc herniations with OPLL.
However, given their relative radioresistance and their typical malignant, invasive nature, surgery may be associated with fairly high morbidity and mortality rates.
Furthermore, it may be especially difficult to achieve gross total resections with tumor-free margins.
Patients undergoing spinal surgery while under anticoagulation therapy are at risk of developing bleeding complications, even though lower incidences have been reported for joint arthroplasty surgery.
Occipital-cervical fusion (OCF) has been used to treat instability of the occipito-cervical junction and to provide biomechanical stability after decompressive surgery.
The specific areas that require detailed morphologic knowledge to prevent technical failures are the thickness of the occipital bone and diameter of the C2 pedicle, as the occipital midline bone and the C2 pedicle have structurally the strongest bone to provide the biomechanical purchase for cranio-cervical instrumentation.
The aim of this study was to perform a quantitative morphometric analysis using computed tomography (CT) to determine the variability of the occipital bone thickness and C2 pedicle thickness to optimize screw placement for OCF in a South East Asian population.
The dural tail (DT) has been described as a common feature in meningiomas.
There is a great variation of tumor invasion and extent of tumor cells in the DT.
Therefore, the necessity to include the whole DT in Gamma Knife radiosurgery is not clear, since inclusion increases the target volume and therefore increases the risk of complications.
In this analysis, we evaluated whether the complete tail should be included as part of the target in Gamma Knife radiosurgery for meningiomas.
Gamma knife radiosurgery (GKRS) has emerged as an important treatment option for metastasis brain tumors (MBTs).
The treatment of MBTs derived from lung cancer with GKRS at our institution is reviewed.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided deep brain stimulation (DBS) and high frequency focused ultrasound (FUS) is an emerging modality to treat several neurological disorders of the brain.
Hardware failure or malfunction after deep brain stimulation is an infrequent but costly occurrence with currently available systems.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a neurodegenerative disease due to mitochondrial dysfunction.
The PSP syndrome presents generally with gait disorder, Parkinsonism, ophthalmoparesis and cognitive alteration.
The aim of our study was to evaluate further the potential role of DBS in PSP.
We compared the diagnostic yield and morbidity by frame-based computed tomography-guided stereotactic biopsy (CTSTB) with Brown-Roberts-Wells (BRW) unit and by neuronavigation-guided frameless stereotactic biopsy (NSTB) using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in the world.
Current predictions estimate that by the year 2020 cardiovascular diseases, notably atherosclerosis will become the leading global cause of the total disease burden.
Atherosclerosis of the Coronary artery causes myocardial infarction and angina pectoris.
Endothelial Nitric oxide (NO), released by the intact and healthy endothelium plays a very important role in the maintenance of vascular tone and structure.
Decreased NO level leads to endothelial dysfunction is an initial event in the atherosclerosis.
Pre-hypertension refers to blood pressure in the range of 120 to 139 mm of Hg / 80 to 89 mm of Hg and its prevalence is increasing in India.
Previous studies have documented the increase in homocysteine, C-reactive protein and insulin resistance and their role in the development of hypertension.
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III), 1988-1994, first time reported a significant, positive association in iron storage and heart disease risk.
Thereafter several researchers have found an association between iron overload, serum ferritin (SF) and MI.
No such Indian study was available in the literature and so we decided to find out the relation of lipid profile and Serum Ferritin with myocardial infarction (MI).
Insulin resistance a physiological condition is marked by hyperglycemia and failure of cells to respond to normal action thus hyperinsulinemia.
Physically inactive individuals having sedentary life style are also at a risk of developing insulin resistance.
Pancytopenia is a common hematological entity encountered in our laboratory practice.
Absolute Reticulocyte count (ARC) plays a pivotal role in identifying the cause of pancytopenia in most of the cases but it has grossly been overlooked.
Ovary is the commonest site of neoplastic and non-neoplastic lesion, can present in childhood to postmenopausal age group and accounts for the most prevalent cause of hospital admissions.
Identifying and employing appropriate learning styles could play an important role in selecting teaching styles, which can improve education ultimately.
Patient controlled epidural labour analgesia (PCEA) is convenient and safer technique for this purpose.
Very few studies compared clonidine and fentanyl with ropivacaine in labour analgesia in past.
This study was undertaken to compare fentanyl and clonidine in PCEA.
Pain is a very well-known signal of ill health and analgesics are the drugs that are used to relieve pain.
The main problem with these drugs remains that of side effects.
Safer alternatives are natural herbs.
Guduchi (Tinospora cordifolia) is one such plant with analgesic potential but few studies are there.
Several studies have reported that commonly used antiepileptic drugs like phenytoin, and carbamazepine increase serum High Density Lipoproteins Cholesterol (HDL-C) levels, while some others documented no such effect.
Further, some researchers also observed that valproic acid and other newer antiepileptic drugs like lamotrigine and levetiracetam has no influence on serum lipid profile.
One in four Indians is a juvenile.
Sexual crimes, pre marital sex, sexually transmitted diseases and unwanted pregnancies are on the rise.
It has been shown that lack of sexuality education can significantly contribute to the above.
Bronchial asthma being a chronic inflammatory disease of airways has numerous treatment options none of which have disease modifying properties.
Curcumin, a yellow dietary pigment has varied pharmacological activities, prominent among which is an anti-inflammatory activity which may be crucial in bronchial asthma as has been proved by various in vitro and in vivo animal studies.
Directly observed treatment short course (DOTS) and self-administered therapy (SAT) are the treatment options available for tuberculosis (TB).
During this period about 40% of physical growth and 80% of mental development occurs.
Any adverse influences during this period may result in severe limitations in their development.
Adolescent health is a relatively new focus area of India's National health program.
However, little evidence is available for the existing problems especially in adolescent slum population.
A study was planned to explore the problems of adolescent pertaining to sexuality, physical health, tobacco and alcohol use in slums of Urban Meerut, and create evidence base for informed planning and decision making by the local health authorities.
Platelets and their activity have a crucial role in acute coronary events.
Larger platelets are enzymatically and metabolically more active and have a higher potential thrombotic ability as compared with smaller platelets.
Hypertension (HTN) is a major risk factor contributing to premature mortality from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease.To decrease morbidity and mortality from HTN, timely diagnosis of the disease and its complications, urgent treatment and referrals are required.
General Practioners (GPs) are the first tier of the health care system in India and have a wide scope of practice.
With this objective we decided to interview them personally and analyse their approach.
Oxygen saturation is considered as the 5(th) vital sign.
Presently, there exist fixed and wireless pulse oximeters, being the latter most widely used in the last years.
Some of them have no possibility of calibration.
This situation leads the health staff to adopt therapeutic attitudes which can be wrong.
Therefore, it is extremely important to know if these wireless oximeters show a right concordance as regards measurements, since it is of great interest in daily clinical practice.
It is a first hormone linking gastrointestinal-pituitary axis.
There are multiple studies which have found spinal anaesthesia as a safe alternative.
Ectopic pregnancy is the most common cause of pregnancy related deaths in the first trimester of pregnancy.
Advances in laboratory and imaging technologies in last few decades allow an early diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy, many times even before the patient develops any symptoms.
Consequently in many such patients surgery is not always necessary.
Expectant and medical management are feasible options in properly selected cases.
In the present study, efficacy of medical management of selected cases of ectopic pregnancy with injection methotrexate and the factors influencing the success of medical management were evaluated.
Distraction techniques are often provided by nurses, parents or child life specialists and help in pain alleviation during procedures.
The use of non pharmacological procedures to cope with pain behaviour is less costly and most of these procedures can be administered by a nurse.
The caduceus is the popular symbol of medicine.
However, premier health organizations and regulatory bodies such as the World Health Organization and the Medical Council of India use a different symbol- the rod of Asclepius in their logo.
There is an increasing awareness and recognition that the caduceus is a false symbol and has no historical substantiation as an emblem of medicine.
Many academic and health institutions in the western hemisphere have changed their logo as a consequence.
There are other symbols of medicine which are similarly misunderstood.
Iodine deficiency disorder (IDD) is one of the preventable major public health problems in India.
It has been always thought that goitre was only found in the Himalayan goitre belt.
Recent surveys outside the conventional goitre belt have identified foci of iodine deficiency in other parts of India.
Anxiety disorders may affect nearly one in four persons and may cause significant impairment of interpersonal relationships including marital relationships.
The effect of the disorder on the spouse and the impact of including the spouse in therapy are not well studied.
Active learning strategies have been documented to enhance learning.
We created an active learning environment in neuromuscular physiology lectures for first year medical students by using 'Pause Procedure'.
Onychomycosis is mainly caused by dermatophytes, but yeasts and nondermatophyte molds have also been implicated, giving rise to diverse clinical presentations.
The aetiological agents of the disease may show geographic variation.
Nano emulsion gel formulations are said to have various advantages over the conventional formulations.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) induces proliferation of endothelial cells, stimulates angiogenesis, and increases vascular permeability, but information about its role in periodontal diseases is limited.
The aim of this study is to determine the association between VEGF expression in healthy and periodontally diseased tissues of healthy and diabetic patients.
Oral leukoplakia is a potentially malignant disorder of the oral cavity.
Leukoplakias with chances of undergoing malignant transformation owing to the presence of dysplastic changes may not be clinically distinguishable from leukoplakias without dysplasia.
The study was carried out to evaluate the usefulness of biopsy in assessing the clinico-pathologic correlations of oral leukoplakia at the patient's initial visit.
Hence, this study was undertaken with the objective of assessing the knowledge, attitude and practice of school teachers towards oral health.
WHO has recently renamed odontogenic keratocyst as keratocystic odontogenic tumour (KCOT) depending on its tumour like behaviour.
Conventional radiographic techniques being two dimensional, has its restrictions and is confined to limited diagnostic value.
However, the incorporation of Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) gives a three dimensional insight to the tooth morphology and leads to better evaluation and treatment management.
It is well accepted that a clinical examination alone cannot be considered diagnostic to justify the involvement of cervicofacial lymph nodes especially deep and small nodes.
Ultrasonography is an easy, reproducible, non invasive, non-ionizing imaging modality to evaluate cervicofacial lymph nodes.
Terminalia chebula is one of the traditional medicines used in the treatment of many diseases and possesses a wide variety of therapeutic activities.
The aim of this study was to determine the antimicrobial properties of Terminalia chebula against oral pathogens related to caries.
Oral pre cancer and oral cancer results in lipid peroxidation, and assessment of lipid peroxides in body fluids may give insights into the role of anti oxidants in its management.
To adapt to these changes, graduate medical education can adopt a chief resident-led clinical curriculum.
Chief residents are ideal clinical instructors, as they are recent graduates who have excelled in their residency programs.
To effectively use the limited time available for education, chief residents can implement active learning techniques.
We present a chief resident-led, small-group, problem-based curriculum for teaching first-year internal medicine residents, and provide preliminary data supporting the efficacy of this approach.
Also, we studied the effect of brain volume on fine motor skills.
Toxoplasmosis is a major cause of foodborne disease, congenital complication, and morbidity.
The hypothesis was: combination diclazuril plus atovaquone to exert a novel therapeutic synergy to prevent toxoplasmosis syndromes.
Hypertension damages small vessels, resulting in both lacunar infarction and subcortical intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).
Substance abuse has also been linked to small vessel pathology.
This study explores whether the use of specific substances (e.g., cocaine, tobacco) is associated with subcortical ICH over ischemia in hypertensive individuals.
Dopaminergic medication has been shown to have an influence on the development of depressive symptoms.
Pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infection (PANDAS) remains a controversial diagnosis and it is unclear how frequently it is encountered in clinical practice.
The full-length isoform of matrixmetalloproteinase-2 (FL-MMP-2) plays a role in turnover of the cardiac extracellular matrix.
Recently, a novel N-terminal truncated MMP-2 isoform (NTT-MMP-2) generated during oxidative stress was identified and shown to induce severe systolic failure; however, the injury mechanisms remained unclear.
In this study, cardiac-specific NTT-MMP-2 transgenic mice were used to determine the physiological effects of NTT-MMP-2 on: force development of intact myocardium; the function of cardiac myofilaments in demembranated myocardium; and on intracellular Ca(2+) transients in isolated myocytes.
We related the contractile defects arising from NTT-MMP-2 expression to the known intracellular locations of NTT-MMP-2 determined using immunohistochemistry.
Comparison was made with the pathophysiology arising from cardiac-specific FL-MMP-2 transgenic mice.
Consistent with previous studies, FL-MMP-2 was localized to myofilaments, while NTT-MMP-2 was concentrated within subsarcolemmal mitochondria and to sites in register with the Z-line.
NTT-MMP-2 expression caused a 50% reduction of force development by intact myocardium.
However, NTT-MMP-2 expression did not reduce myofilament force development, consistent with the lack of NTT-MMP-2 localization to myofilaments.
NTT-MMP-2 expression caused a 50% reduction in the amplitude of Ca(2+) transients, indicating impaired activation.
The integration of both types of elements is necessary for social interaction.
We tested the hypothesis that patients present lesser performances regarding both semantic and emotional prosodic processes during emotional speech comprehension compared with healthy participants.
In April 2011, a post election violent conflict in Northern Nigeria led to resettlement of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in a camp in Kaduna, the worst affected state.
We set out to determine prevalence and socio-demographic factors associated with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) among IDPs.
We also determined types of psycho-trauma experienced by the IDPs and their psychosocial adjustment.
There is a growing concern that this health challenge is not fully understood and efficiently addressed.
what is the human self?
It offers a proposal for theorizing the self from an enactive perspective as an autonomous system that is constituted through interpersonal relations.
It addresses a prevalent issue in the philosophy of cognitive science: the body-social problem.
Embodied and social approaches to cognitive identity are in mutual tension.
On the one hand, embodied cognitive science risks a new form of methodological individualism, implying a dichotomy not between the outside world of objects and the brain-bound individual but rather between body-bound individuals and the outside social world.
On the other hand, approaches that emphasize the constitutive relevance of social interaction processes for cognitive identity run the risk of losing the individual in the interaction dynamics and of downplaying the role of embodiment.
This paper adopts a middle way and outlines an enactive approach to individuation that is neither individualistic nor disembodied but integrates both approaches.
Elaborating on Jonas' notion of needful freedom it outlines an enactive proposal to understanding the self as co-generated in interactions and relations with others.
On this view, the body, rather than being identical with the social self, becomes its mediator.
In recent years Galaxy has become a popular workflow management system in bioinformatics, due to its ease of installation, use and extension.
The availability of Semantic Web-oriented tools in Galaxy, however, is limited.
This is also the case for Semantic Web Services such as those provided by the SADI project, i.e.
services that consume and produce RDF.
Here we present SADI-Galaxy, a tool generator that deploys selected SADI Services as typical Galaxy tools.
The pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis remains poorly understood.
The Wnt signaling pathway regulates fibrogenesis in different organs.
Here, we studied the role of two extracellular Wnt antagonists, secreted frizzled-related protein-1 (SFRP1) and frizzled-related protein (FRZB) on lung fibrosis in vitro and in vivo.
For this purpose, we used an alveolar epithelial cell line and a lung fibroblast cell line, and the bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis model, respectively.
Butyric acid, one of the key products formed when -glucans are degraded by the microbiota in the colon, has been proposed to be important for colonic health.
Glutamine bound to the fibre may have similar effects once it has been liberated from the fibre in the colon.
Both -glucans and glutamine are found in high amounts in malted barley.
Lactobacillus rhamnosus together with malt has been shown to increase the formation of butyric acid further in rats.
Reduction of added salt levels in soups is recommended.
We evaluated the impact of a 30% reduction of usual added salt in vegetable soups on elderly and children's saltiness and liking evaluation.
The composition and surface structure of dietary lipids influence their intestinal degradation.
Intake of liposomes made of fractionated oat oil (LOO) is suggested to affect the digestion process and postprandial lipemia and also induce satiety.
Elderly subjects are at risk of insufficient vitamin D status mainly because of diminished capacity for cutaneous vitamin D synthesis.
In cases of insufficient endogenous production, vitamin D status depends on vitamin D intake.
Vitamin A deficiency is considered as one of the public health problems among pregnant women worldwide.
Population representative data on vitamin A status in pregnancy have not previously been published from Iran.
Effectively educating families about the risks and benefits of genomic tests such as whole exome sequencing (WES) offers numerous challenges, including the complexity of test results and potential loss of privacy.
Research on best practices for obtaining informed consent (IC) in a variety of clinical settings is needed.
We report on our experience for the first 100 families enrolled, including study participation rates, reasons for declining enrollment, assessment of clinical and demographic factors that might impact study enrollment, and preferences of parents for participation in optional genomics study procedures.
Hence, there is a need to identify and quantify clinical factors during the early post-operative period that are indicative of short-term as well as long-term outcomes.
Category vs. dimension is a classic debate in psychiatry.
Based on review of literature World Health Organization (WHO) Global Burden of Disease Study has estimated that psychiatric disorders are among the most burdensome, around the globe and has suggested general population surveys for future research.
Nonmedical sedative use is emerging as a serious problem in India.
Attitude of fresh graduates toward psychiatric patients is important to bridge the treatment gap due to mental illness.
Psychiatry as a subject has been neglected in the undergraduates of MBBS.
General hospital psychiatric units (GHPUs) are one of the major service and training providers in the field of mental health in India.
However, there has not been any systematic attempt at their contributions toward research.
This study was conducted to represent the effect of supplemental vitamin D3 on serum leptin, TNF- and adiposity in type 2 diabetic patients.
These patients have elevated the risk of atherosclerosis.
Tobacco smoking is the leading cause of preventable mortality.
The purpose of this study was to establish the determinants associated with the initiation of tobacco smoking among university students.
Migraine is a chronic disorder affecting women more than men.
Tourniquets used repeatedly on patients for blood sampling are a potential source of nosocomial infections.
They harbor numerous microorganisms, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).
The aim of this study was to investigate tourniquets for the presence of microorganisms and to ascertain the infection control practices of health care workers.
The aim was to compare the intensity of pain caused by suprapubic aspiration (SPA) and urethral catheterization for urine sampling in premature infants.
Multiple sclerosis is a common and chronic neurologic disorder.
This disorder imposes physical, economic, and psychosocial burden on individuals, their families and society.
Psoriasis has a great impact on QOL of patients, and has a strong effect on social relations, psychological status, and daily activities.
Oligodendrocytes, the myelinating glial cells of central nervous system, are highly vulnerable to ischemic-induced excitotoxic insult, a phenomenon in which calcium overload triggers cell death.
Berberine is an alkaloid extracted from medicinal herbs as Coptidis Rhizoma with several pharmacological effects like inhibition of neuronal apoptosis in cerebral ischemia.
Few studies are available exclusively done on the topic among young adults.
Neck and shoulder pains are the prevalent complaints among computer office workers.
The purpose of this study was to assess the relationship of somatization tendency, expectation of pain, mental health and beliefs about causation of pain with persistence of neck/shoulder pains among computer office workers.
Men, much like women, are faced with age-related menopause-like symptoms as they age.
Icter is the most prevalent disease in newborns.
Although most of the newborns affiliated with this seem healthy in other aspects, there is always a fear for toxic complication of indirect hyperbilirobinemia in the central nervous system.
Nowadays phototherapy is the method of decreasing (or avoidance of increase) of total serum bilirobin (TSB) and it is also used widely in neonatal health care centers according to the availably of equipment, but without any defined standard.
In this study, two light sources, quarts halogen incandescent filament lamp (QHIFL) and fluorescent lamp (FL) are compared with each other to find out which method is more useful and efficient.
Cesarean delivery is a surgery for deliver a baby.
Obesity, particularly, abdominal obesity (AO) is associated with the risk of metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease.
This study aimed to assess obesity and central obesity within students aged 11-18 of Birjand city.
The interrelation between health and academic performance is well established.
Academic institutions have a larger mandate, beyond academic instruction alone.
The objective is to contribute holistically to student development through various paradigms, ultimately culminating in student success.
To meet the global challenges of a changing educational system, educational institutions today are therefore vying to be Centers of Excellence, aiming to develop the overall personality of the student.
Fundamental to this ideology and with student success as the common denominator, student Wellness assumes critical significance.
Higher education institutions, especially universities offer varying levels of healthcare services.
Health Promoting University (HPU) projects have therefore been implemented in the West.
Unlike in the West, the concept of a Health Promoting University is nascent in India.
In general, organic solvents are inhibiting many physiological enzymes and alter the behavioural functions, but the available scientific knowledge on laboratory solvent induced organ specific toxins are very limited.
Hence, the present study was planned to determine the sub-chronic toxic effects of petroleum ether (boiling point 40-60C), a laboratory solvent in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats.
Cross infection remains one of the major challenges in the dental profession, especially in field settings.
Transmission of hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and human immunodeficiency virus have raised a major concern for patients and dental staff.
These risks can be eliminated by effective sterilization and disinfection techniques.
The distribution of uropathogens and their susceptibility pattern to antibiotics vary regionally and even in the same region, they change over time.
Following the first association between the dopamine D2 receptor gene polymorphism and severe alcoholism, there has been an explosion of research reports in the psychiatric and behavioral addiction literature and neurogenetics.
With this increased knowledge, the field has been rife with controversy.
Moreover, with the advent of Whole Genome-Wide Studies (GWAS) and Whole Exome Sequencing (WES), along with Functional Genome Convergence, the multiple-candidate gene approach still has merit and is considered by many as the most prudent approach.
Since 1996, our laboratory has coined the umbrella term Reward Deficiency Syndrome (RDS) to explain the common neurochemical and genetic mechanisms involved with both substance and non-substance, addictive behaviors.
Acute mountain sickness (AMS) can occur in anyone going to a high altitude.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been studied for the prevention of AMS with mixed results.
In this systematic review, we analyze all existing data on the use of NSAIDs to prevent AMS using the Lake Louise Scoring System (LLSS) in different randomized clinical trials (RCTs).
The model of bilaterally ovariectomized rats mimics the accelerated bone loss observed in postmenopausal women due to estrogen deficiency.
This study was aimed to investigate the effect of time course ovariectomized on tibia bone turn over markers, mineral elements, hydroxyapatite crystale, mesostructure, and histomorphometry.
Flow cytometry is the most commonly used technology to measure microvesicles (MVs).
Despite reported limitations of this technique, MV levels obtained using conventional flow cytometry have yielded many clinically relevant findings, such as associations with disease severity and ability to predict clinical outcomes.
This study aims to determine if MV enumeration by flow cytometry correlates with a measurement of their functional capacity, as this may explain how flow cytometry generates clinically relevant results.
Increasingly the arch-profile form of the in-shoe foot orthosis is being incorporated into sandal footwear, providing an alternative footwear option for those who require an orthosis.
Female voiding dysfunction is a complex disorder, lacks definition, and is poorly understood and difficult to manage.
As there is no agreed classification of female voiding dysfunction, it is important to identify the several potential factors that might cause voiding dysfunction, namely anatomic, neurogenic, pharmacologic, endocrine, pharmacological and other causes.
Traditional and novel techniques are available and the importance and diagnostic dilemma related to these conditions need to be understood.
We conclude by emphasizing the need to simplify the diagnosis and nomenclature of these conditions from a more clinical point of view as against an investigational perspective.
Adult granulosa cell tumor (GCT) is a rare ovarian malignancy having good prognosis in comparison with other epithelial tumors.
Noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) are an emerging public health problem, accounting for 80% of deaths in low and middle-income countries leading to a global epidemic.
The increasing burden of NCDs is affecting poor and disadvantaged women population disproportionately, contributing to widening health gaps between and within countries.
Globalization and urbanization have led to lifestyle changes among urban poor, which need to be understood, as the urban areas are undergoing rapid transitions.
Falls are a major public health problem in the elderly population.
The major challenge would be on the prevention of falls among them.
Hence there is a need to highlight the problems related to fall faced by the elderly in India.
Shoulder pain in swimmers has been attributed to duration of swim practice, total yardage, and break down in stroke technique.
Rehabilitation programs are generally land-based and cannot adequately address the intricacies of the swimming strokes.
Return to swimming protocols (RTSP) that address progression of yardage are scarce, yet needed.
The purpose of this clinical commentary is to familiarize the clinician with the culture and vernacular of swimming, and to provide a suggested yardage based RTSP for high school and collegiate level swimmers.
Evidence-based practice requires clinicians to stay current with the scientific literature.
Unfortunately, rehabilitation professionals are often faced with research literature that is difficult to interpret clinically.
Clinical research data is often analyzed with traditional statistical probability (p-values), which may not give rehabilitation professionals enough information to make clinical decisions.
Statistically significant differences or outcomes simply address whether to accept or reject a null or directional hypothesis, without providing information on the magnitude or direction of the difference (treatment effect).
To improve the interpretation of clinical significance in the rehabilitation literature, researchers commonly include more clinically-relevant information such as confidence intervals and effect sizes.
It is important for clinicians to be able to interpret confidence intervals using effect sizes, minimal clinically important differences, and magnitude-based inferences.
The purpose of this commentary is to discuss the different aspects of statistical analysis and determinations of clinical relevance in the literature, including validity, significance, effect, and confidence.
Understanding these aspects of research will help practitioners better utilize the evidence to improve their clinical decision-making skills.
Australian subacute inpatient rehabilitation facilities face significant challenges from the ageing population and the increasing burden of chronic disease.
Foot disease complications are a negative consequence of many chronic diseases.
Here, preclinical models were explored to investigate the mechanism of action and immune signatures of anti-tumor efficacy with PROSTVAC immunotherapy with the goal to identify potential immune correlates of clinical benefit.
Membranous nephropathy (MN) is the most common cause of nephropathy in adults.
The diagnosis is based on characteristic light microscopic, electron microscope and immunofluorescence (IF) findings.
In early MN, the light microscopic findings may be difficult to differentiate from minimal chain disease.
In the absence of fresh frozen tissue for IF, immunohistochemistry with C4d aids in the diagnosis.
Extra-nasal rhinosporidiosis is not uncommon in endemic region like India.
Clinical presentations of extra-nasal rhinosporidiosis lesion often lead to diagnostic dilemma.
Cytology can help in the preoperative diagnosis of such lesions.
Our study presents a new deparaffinizing and hematoxylin and eosin (H and E) staining method that involves the use of easily available, nontoxic and eco-friendly liquid diluted dish washing soap (DWS) by completely eliminating expensive and hazardous xylene and alcohol from deparaffinizing and rehydration prior to staining, staining and from dehydration prior to mounting.
Mupirocin is an effective antibiotic for elimination of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from nasal colonization and has been used to control outbreaks.
Current reports show an increasing trend of resistance to this antibiotic.
Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) is an insidious chronic fibrotic condition that involves the oral mucosa and occasionally the pharynx and esophagus.
Vascularity in OSMF has always been a matter of debate.
The prevailing concept is that epithelial atrophy occurs due to lack of perfusion but the recent data challenges this concept.
Therefore, the present study was conducted to evaluate the immunoreactivity of CD34 and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in different histological grades of OSMF.
This might further shed light to the role of microvasculature in OSMF, so that the epithelial atrophy and resultant malignant transformation seen in the advanced stages might be elucidated.
Adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) is a malignant salivary gland neoplasm with poor long-term prognosis.
Differentiating between AdCC and other salivary gland neoplasms can be a diagnostic challenge, particularly in examining tissues obtained from small incisional biopsies.
Traditionally, various histopathological grading systems have been used for assessing aggression and prognosis of OSCC.
Dental follicle (DF) is an ectomesenchymal tissue that surrounds the developing tooth germ and contains precursor cells for cementoblasts, periodontal ligaments and osteoblasts.
Radiographically, the DFs are seen as semicircular radiolucencies around unerupted teeth.
However, if the DFs are larger than 2.5 mm, they are considered to be a pathological change.
The purpose of this study was to observe and compare the nuclear features in different grades of epithelial dysplasia in leukoplakia and to evaluate the use of Feulgen stain for observing the nuclear features in oral epithelial dysplasia in leukoplakia.
Seventy paraffin embedded tissue section (20 mild, 20 moderate, 20 severe dysplasia cases and 10 control specimens) were analyzed for nuclear morphology using Feulgen stain under trinocular research microscope.
Statistically significant results were obtained with P &gt; 0.001, when intergroup comparison was done except in case of nuclear area and diameter between mild and moderate dysplasia.
Nuclear features reflect cell's biological potential and its morphometry was found to be a useful tool for differentiating different grades of dysplasia.
Several studies have demonstrated the activity of natural plants on the dental biofilm and caries development.
But few studies on the antimicrobial activity of coffee-based solutions were found in the literature.
Recent studies have indicated that although malignant cells at the invasive tumor front, bare morphological resemblance to the cells at central portion of the tumor, their molecular character differs significantly.
E-cadherin is a cell-cell adhesion molecule that connects epithelial cells.
Medical science is perceived as a stressful educational career, and medical students experience monstrous stress during their undergraduate studies, internship, and residency training, which affects their cognitive function, practical life, and patient care.
Brentuximab vedotin (SGN-35), an anti-cluster of differentiation (CD)-30 antibody conjugated to the anti-tubulin agent monomethyl auristatin E, has demonstrated promising efficacy and tolerability in relapsed and heavily treated Hodgkin lymphoma (HL).
ETS translocation variant 4 (ETV4) is an ETS (E-26) transcription factor and has been associated with tumor metastasis.
However, the clinical and functional significance of ETV4 in TNBC still remains unclear.
This study aimed to describe characteristics and survival of oral SCC in Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Western Australians.
However, its molecular heterogeneity has not been previously investigated in biological samples.
Mass Spectrometric Immunoassay (MSIA) may help elucidate MIF post-translational modifications existing in vivo and provide additional clarity regarding its relationship to diverse pathologies.
On the other hand, lipid profile modification after a cardiovascular event related to acute coronary syndrome (ACS) has been recognized.
Pharmacist interventions and medication errors potentially differ between the People's Republic of China and other countries.
Compensatory hyperhidrosis (CH) is a potential complication following endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy (ETS) in the management of primary hyperhidrosis.
CH is considered a permanent condition with significant psychosocial impacts but with few treatment options.
Various reversal surgical techniques, aimed at reconstituting sympathetic pathways, have been developed but results have been inconsistent.
Theoretical knowledge of carbon nanotube clearance in the human respiratory tract represents an essential contribution to the risk assessment of artificial airborne nanomaterials.
Thus, single phases of nanotube clearance were simulated with the help of a theoretical model.
In the past decades, aerosol bolus inhalation increasingly came into the focus of medical interest due to its potential as a non-invasive technique for the diagnosis of lung diseases.
The experimental studies were accompanied by the development of theoretical contributions dealing with aerosol bolus behaviour in healthy and diseased lungs.
In this study, bolus dispersion in healthy and asthmatic children is subject to a theoretical approach.
Model predictions are validated with related experimental findings.
Physicians' adherence to stroke guidelines is becoming a critical part of public stroke care system.
The objective of this national survey was to examine Chinese physicians' awareness of the guidelines in secondary stroke prevention.
Even though great advances have been made in the analysis of nucleotide sequences, computer programs for non-DNA discrete characters are often dedicated to specific analyses and lack flexibility.
Discrete characters often have different transition rate matrices, variable rates among sites and sometimes contain unobservable states.
To obtain the ability to accurately estimate a variety of discrete characters, programs with sophisticated methodologies and flexible settings are desired.
Family physicians (FPs) have an opportunity to diagnose pigmented lesions early with a timely biopsy.
Obstetrical brachial plexus injury (OBPI) in children can cause great distress to a family due to uncertain recovery, variability in spontaneous recovery and unclear indicators for surgery.
The impact of this demographic shift on CABG outcomes, such as sternal wound dehiscence, is unclear.
Functional dyspepsia (FD) and gastroparesis (GP) are the two most prevalent gastric neuromuscular disorders.
These disorders are frequently confused, have more similarities than differences, and can be thought of as two ends of a continuous spectrum of gastric neuromuscular disorders (Fig.
1).
FD is currently defined by the Rome III criteria; it is now subdivided into a pain-predominant subtype (epigastric pain syndrome) and a meal-associated subtype (post-prandial distress syndrome).
GP is defined by symptoms in conjunction with delayed gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction.
Symptoms for both FD and GP are similar and include epigastric pain or discomfort, early satiety, bloating, and post-prandial nausea.
Vomiting can occur with either diagnosis; it is typically more common in GP.
A patient suspected of having either FD or GP should undergo upper endoscopy.
In suspected GP, upper endoscopy is required to rule out a mechanical obstruction.
Once the diagnosis of FD or GP is made, treatment should focus on the predominant symptom.
Unfortunately, no medication is currently approved for the treatment of FD and, thus, technically, all treatment options remain off-label, including medications for visceral pain (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants) and nausea.
This review focuses on treatment options for FD and GP with an emphasis on new advances in the field over the last several years.
Once easily eradicated with triple or quadruple therapy, Helicobacter pylori infection has become increasingly resistant to traditional first-line treatment regimens because of emerging antibiotic resistance coupled with poor patient compliance with completing the treatment course.
Unfortunately, efforts thus far have not universally improved treatment responses, as promising early results were often not extrapolated to wider populations.
This is probably due largely to regional variation in H. pylori resistance patterns.
Ideally, the standard of care should be dictated by knowledge of local H. pylori antimicrobial resistance patterns and clinical success rates rather than by empiric extrapolation from the literature.
Unfortunately, such knowledge is usually lacking in the USA.
Standard triple therapy with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), amoxicillin, and clarithromycin may still be effective in some areas; however, in populations with high clarithromycin resistance, quadruple therapy with a metronidazole-based regimen may be a better choice, and concomitant, sequential, or hybrid dosing schedules should also be considered as possible first-line choices.
Second- and third-line treatment regimens consist of levofloxacin-based and rifabutin-based therapies, respectively.
Further work should be directed at establishing local resistance patterns and eradication rates, developing H. pylori-specific antibiotics, and starting culture-guided treatment programs.
Ultimately, the development of an H. pylori vaccine would bypass any issues with antibiotic resistance by preventing the acquisition of infection altogether.
Therefore, safe prescription is mandatory in order to prevent adverse events.
In the last two decades, new strategies and new drugs have been developed to reduce NSAID-associated upper gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events.
This is encouraging.Safe NSAID prescription should be straightforward since the most relevant aspects are clinical in nature.
ibuprofen/naproxen) may alter its antiplatelet effect, representing a potential clinical problem.
Switching treatment (e.g.
taking aspirin before NSAID dosing) may not be an alternative since interaction may persist, especially when taking enteric-coated aspirin.
There are 34 studies in almost 2 million participants that have reported on the association between proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy and risk of fracture.
There is no clear dose-response relationship and there is no association between PPI therapy and risk of fracture in those at highest risk.
Finally, there is no clear mechanism through which PPI therapy increases the risk of fracture, as recent randomized trials show no impact of PPI therapy on calcium absorption and there is no association between PPI therapy and risk of osteoporosis.
We therefore feel there is insufficient evidence to change PPI prescribing habits based on risk of fracture.
Similarly, we do not recommend bone mineral density investigations for patients taking PPI therapy other than would be normally indicated.
There is no evidence to support prescription of calcium and/or vitamin D in patients simply because they are taking PPI therapy.
As with all medications, we only recommend prescribing PPI therapy when there is a clear indication that benefit will outweigh risk and at the lowest effective dose.
Patients should be regularly assessed as to whether acid suppression is still required.
The medical community has only recently started to focus attention on the role of food in the pathogenesis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), though the association between food and gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms has been recognized by patients for decades.
Health care providers receive little formal training in the dietary management of IBS and have traditionally viewed dietary interventions with skepticism.
The role of specific dietary modification in the management of IBS has not been rigorously investigated until recently.
There is now credible evidence suggesting that targeted dietary carbohydrate exclusion provides clinical benefits to IBS patients.
There is emerging evidence to suggest that proteins such as gluten, as well as food chemicals, may play a role in IBS.
Gastroparesis is defined as the presence of delayed gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction, with a variety of upper gastrointestinal symptoms.
However, the evidence that these drugs provide substantial symptomatic benefit is weak.
More recently, also, no benefit was found with treatment with a tricyclic antidepressant in idiopathic gastroparesis.
Gastroparesis is likely to remain a challenging condition in the clinic in the foreseeable future.
The first group includes those with an elevated mean IRP that is associated with peristaltic abnormalities such as achalasia and esophagogastric junction outflow obstruction.
The second group includes those with a normal mean IRP that is associated with esophageal hypermotility disorders such as distal esophageal spasm, hypercontractile esophagus (jackhammer esophagus), and hypertensive peristalsis (nutcracker esophagus).
The third group includes those with a normal mean IRP that is associated with esophageal hypomotility peristaltic abnormalities such as absent peristalsis, weak peristalsis with small or large breaks, and frequent failed peristalsis.
The therapeutic options vary greatly between the different groups of esophageal motor disorders.
In achalasia patients, potential treatment strategies comprise medical therapy (calcium channel blockers, nitrates, and phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors), endoscopic procedures (botulinum toxin A injection, pneumatic dilation, or peroral endoscopic myotomy) or surgery (Heller myotomy).
Defecatory disorders (DD) and fecal incontinence (FI) are common conditions.
DD are primarily attributable to impaired rectoanal function during defecation or structural defects.
FI is caused by one or more disturbances of anorectal continence mechanisms.
Altered stool consistency may be the primary cause or may unmask anorectal deficits in both conditions.
Diagnosis and management requires a systematic approach beginning with a thorough clinical assessment.
Therefore, all constipated patients who do not adequately respond to medical therapy should be considered for anorectal testing to identify a DD.
Preferably, two tests indicating impaired defecation are required to diagnose a DD.
When these measures are not beneficial, anorectal testing and pelvic floor retraining with biofeedback therapy should be considered.
Sacral nerve stimulation or perianal bulking could be considered in patients who have persistent symptoms despite optimal management of bowel disturbances and pelvic floor retraining.
Children rarely present with phaeochromocytoma.
Their presentation differs from that of adults.
In this study, we present a 6-year-old girl who came to us with polyuria and polydipsia for evaluation of suspected diabetes insipidus.
On clinical examination, she was noted to have high blood pressure.
Subsequent investigations revealed a phaeochromocytoma.
Her polyuria and hypertension resolved immediately after the surgery.
We did not have the facilities to arrange for genetic tests; however, the patient and the family members are under follow-up for other associated conditions.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is a chronic disease characterized by the autoimmune destruction of pancreatic -cells.
Ketoacidosis was managed by insulin and insulin daily requirement began to dwindle after one month, until its complete withdrawal at 8 weeks, when partial remission was reached.
The patient has now remained on sitagliptin treatment alone for a year, without requiring insulin.
The benefit observed with this medication is possibly associated with its immunological effects.
Inhibition of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 in animal models deregulates the Th1 immune response, increases secretion of Th2 cytokines, activates CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ regulatory T-cells, and prevents IL17 production.
Primary extra nodal involvement of Hodgkin's lymphoma is very uncommon and previous reports of Hodgkin's lymphoma involving the base of tongue as isolated lesion in relapsed disease are few.
Cosmetic breast augmentation (breast implants) is one of the most common plastic surgery procedures worldwide and uptake in high income countries has increased in the last two decades.
Women need information about all associated outcomes in order to make an informed decision regarding whether to undergo cosmetic breast surgery.
No ethical issues are anticipated.
Results will be submitted for publication in a relevant peer-reviewed journal.
Studies have demonstrated bivalirudin efficacy in some patients at increased risk of bleeding.
The aim of this study was to determine the extent to which bleeding reduction is achieved among all patients using bivalirudin as compared with a heparin with or without 2B3A inhibitor strategy.
First-generation drug-eluting stents (DES) have become the most widely used devices worldwide for management of coronary artery disease.
As remote follow-up data were becoming available, concerns emerged in regard to their long-term safety.
We hypothesise that caffeine, being a competitive inhibitor of adenosine, would influence adenosine-mediated FFR readings.
LGE and Q waves are considered as myocardial scar markers but their relation in the context of HCM is poorly established and has to be more supported.
The objective of the study was to compare ECG findings in the presence or absence of LGE.
Endothelial dysfunction is an early feature of vascular disease.
It is unclear if endothelial dysfunction is related to impaired LV diastolic reserve and diminished exercise capacity.
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a major public health problem.
Such comprehensive data collection is required to unravel the complex basis of OHCA.
Results will be published in peer-reviewed journals and presented at relevant scientific symposia.
The efficacy of paclitaxel-coated balloons (PCB) for restenosis prevention has been demonstrated in humans.
However, the mechanism of action for sustained drug retention and biological efficacy following single-time drug delivery is still unknown.
Cilostazol overcomes high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HTPR) and reduces adverse cardiovascular (CV) outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
Vitamin D deficiency has been shown in observational and prospective studies to be associated with cardiovascular diseases including coronary artery disease, LV hypertrophy and systolic heart failure.
Even though diastolic LV dysfunction is an early manifestation of cardiac disease, there is no study that examines whether a deficiency of vitamin D is associated with LV diastolic dysfunction.
Ethical approval was granted by the institutional review board of Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneshwar, India.
Data will be presented at academic fora and published in peer-reviewed journals.
Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has changed significantly over the past decade with the uptake of radial access and the development of newer and more potent antiplatelets and safer antithrombins.
This survey examined the default access route and pharmacology choice and their interaction in UK interventional practice.
Concurrent cardiac diseases are frequent among elderly patients and invite simultaneous treatment to ensure an overall favourable patient outcome.
These findings have not been verified in a broader population and if extant, may have significant public health and policy implications.
Valvular heart disease (VHD) is an increasingly important cardiac condition, driven by an ageing population and lack of progress in the development of medical therapies.
This document describes the design and methodology of the OxVALVE population cohort study (OxVALVE-PCS), which was conceived to address this need.
This study was approved by the local research ethics committee (Southampton, UK; REC Ref: 09/H0502/58).
Vancomycin is recommended for optimal treatment of late-onset sepsis caused by coagulase-negative Staphylococcus in neonates.
The treatment of celiac disease is a strict, life-long gluten-free (GF) diet.
This diet is complex and can be challenging.
Factors affecting adherence to the GF diet are important to identify for improving adherence.
When moderate or severe adverse events occur after vaccination, physicians and patients may have concerns about future immunizations.
The Special Immunization Clinic (SIC) network was established in 2013 at 13 sites in Canada to provide expertise in the clinical evaluation and vaccination of these patients.
Vancomycin is recommended for optimal treatment of late-onset sepsis caused by coagulase-negative Staphylococcus in neonates.
While written action plans are standard in the treatment and management of asthma, significant variability exists in the content and format among plans.
This variability results in inconsistent educational messages that lend themselves to patient confusion and suboptimal health outcomes.
Sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) is prevalent in children and is associated with significant comorbidity.
Some plant derived foods have been shown to have SOD mimetic (SODm) activity however it is not known if this activity is possessed by culinary herbs which have previously been shown to possess both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.
Transition metal ion content was also determined to establish if it could likely contribute to any SODm activity detected.
The treatment of symptomatic uretropelvic junction obstruction (UPJO) has evolved towards minimal invasive endourologic and laparoscopic techniques.
Robotic assisted laparoscopic pyeloplasty has achieved outcomes comparable to those corresponding to open and laparoscopic techniques.
The objective of this work is to demonstrate that the transition between open to robotic surgeries is straightforward.
We analysed retrospectively "our initial results" in robotic assisted UPJ reconstruction procedures.
Success consisted of no postoperative symptoms, no evidence of obstruction on mercaptoacetyltriglycine-3 diuretic renal scan or computed tomography (CT) and non-further treatment.
Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) responds poorly to conventional chemotherapy, but allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) may improve disease prognosis.
Herein, we report a female patient with human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I)-associated myelopathy (HAM)-like myelopathy following allo-SCT for ATL.
Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is a serious complication following solid organ or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).
Although extranodal involvement of PTLD is common, its isolated involvement in the central nervous system (CNS) is extremely rare.
To date, primary CNS-PTLD has been reported in 13 patients who underwent allogeneic HSCT, but no cases have been reported in autologous HSCT recipients.
The few published studies comparing results between commercial red-cell folate immunoassays have found significant differences.
None have provided longitudinal data during the development of megaloblastic anaemia from severe folate deficiency.
The objective was to produce longitudinal data, comparing results between three commercial immunoassays for red-cell folate, generated by means of severe experimental folate deficiency.
The currently accepted theory, that the human liver store of folate is limited to about four months, is based on the findings of Victor Herbert and others of the era before folate fortification of food.
A recent model, developed by Lin et al., predicts far greater liver folate storage capacity than reported by Herbert.
The conflict between Herbert's and Lin's models needs to be resolved experimentally, however current research is restricted because ethical considerations prevent such risky experimentation on patients or healthy human volunteers.
The objective was to provide a detailed record of the biochemical and haematological responses to the development of severe experimental folate deficiency in an initially replete human subject.
Mild therapeutic hypothermia is an increasingly recognised treatment option to reduce perihemorrhagic edema in severe intracerebral hemorrhage.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a serious complication of systemic sclerosis (SSc), has a dramatic impact on prognosis and survival and is a leading cause of death.
This work presents a direct procedure to apply Pad method to find approximate solutions for nonlinear differential equations.
34L30.
Infections are recognized as major complications during therapy with biologics and other immunosuppressant drugs.
However, non-tuberculous pelvic peritonitis is rare.
The plant pathogenic fungus, Sphaeropsis visci a dark-spored species of Botryosphaeriaceae, which causes the leaf spot disease of the European mistletoe (Viscum album).
This species seems to have potential as a tool for biological control of the hemiparasite.
This approach was based on a polymerase enzyme from the crenarchaeon Sulfolobus solfataricus engineered by fusion protein technology, which linked the polymerase domain to a sequence non-specific DNA binding protein (Sso7d).
Hypertrophic olivary degeneration (HOD) is a rare phenomenon, probably related to transsynaptic degeneration of the inferior olivary nucleus.
Hispanics comprise 17% of the total U.S. population, surpassing African-Americans as the largest minority group.
Linguistically, almost 60 million people speak a language other than English.
This language diversity can create barriers and additional burden and risk when seeking health services.
Research on the determinants of LS adoption has focused more on overall cultural competence and internal managerial decision-making than on measuring LS adoption as a process outcome influenced by contextual or external factors.
The current investigation examines the relationship between state policy, service area factors, and hospital characteristics on hospital LS adoption.
Following the tenets of world polity and innovation diffusion theories, I focus on the coercive and mimetic forces that influence the diffusion of mental health policy across nations.
International organizations' mandates influence government behavior.
Dependency on external resources, namely foreign aid, also affects governments' formulation of national policy.
And finally, mounting adoption in a region alters the risk, benefits, and information associated with a given policy.
The critical role that the board plays in governance of universities clarifies the necessity of evaluating its performance.
This study was aimed to evaluate the performance of the boards of medical universities and provide solutions to enhance its performance.
One common challenge to social systems is achieving equity in financial contributions and preventing financial loss.
Because of the large and unpredictable nature of some costs, achieving this goal in the health system presents important and unique problems.
The aim of this study was to examine the impacts of multiple indicators of Socio-economic Status (SES) on Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) related readmission.
This paper assesses the policy developments pertaining to the implementation of an integrated approach to domestic violence over the past 15 years.
Periods of core strategic policy and related structural developments are considered illustrating the Irish experience of domestic violence policy-making and service provision.
The core facilitators and challenges associated with such an approach are described.
Although several measurement instruments have been developed to measure the level of integrated health care delivery, no standardised, validated instrument exists covering all aspects of integrated care.
The purpose of this review is to identify the instruments concerning how to measure the level of integration across health-care sectors and to assess and evaluate the organisational elements within the instruments identified.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is widely used in clinical practice, and "abnormal brain MRI" findings often prompt assessment for multiple sclerosis (MS), even when there are no symptoms suggestive of the disease.
In addition, it may negatively affect activities of daily living (ADLs).
Many common MS symptoms such as decreased mobility, visual or cognitive changes, fatigue, and depression can exacerbate clutter accumulation, which in turn can have detrimental effects on physical, financial, emotional, cognitive, and social functioning.
It is critical for MS clinicians to address clutter management in order to improve patients' overall functional independence and participation.
However, little is known about their coverage or how it differs between public and private insurance.
Functional electrical stimulation (FES) provides an alternative to the current standard of care for footdrop, an ankle-foot orthosis (AFO).
FES stimulates the peroneal nerve and activates the dorsiflexor muscles, producing an active toe clearance and a more normal gait.
These children have decreased resting energy expenditure but it is unknown if hyperphagia contributes to their obesity.
Critical evaluation of transcranial Doppler (TCD) and magnetic resonance angiography in the SONIA study standardized their performance and interpretation.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a dreaded complication of heparin-related products and correlates with a worse outcome in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) patients.
In the Solitaire With the Intention For Thrombectomy (SWIFT) trial, rescue therapy was used when the Solitaire or Merci device was unable to restore vessel patency.
Markers for nonrecanalization in acute stroke have been reported for intravenous tissue plasminogen activator; however, similar predictors are not known for endovascular therapy.
We sought to identify predictors and outcomes associated with rescue therapy in the SWIFT trial.
The physiological levels of endocrine and metabolic parameters in Slovene autochthonous breeds of sheep are not yet well known, nor are the mechanisms of their adaptability and responses to climate and environmental factors.
Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate fluctuations of cortisol, insulin and non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) in growing ewes over an one-year period.
Blood samples were collected monthly from 10 yearling Jezersko-Solchava, 10 Bovec and 10 Istrian ewes.
It has been claimed to be useful in treating central nervous system disorders.
Kushta is an important solid dosage form of Unani system of medicine used to treat various ailments.
Very small particle size of kushta is responsible for its rapid absorption in body leading to instant therapeutic actions.
Kushta tutia (KT) is one such renowned formulation used by hakims for successful management of various disorders.
However, there is lack of scientific work on KT.
Abrus precatorius seeds traditionally used for the treatment of sciatica and alopecia contains the toxic protein, abrin, a Type II Ribosome Inactivating Protein.
Ayurveda recommends the use of Abrus seeds after the Shodhana process (detoxification).
Nowadays, owing to medicinal plants as a candidate to obtain promising new medicinal agents, there is a renewed interest in the use of these natural sources for drug development.
Recent studies have shown the association of disproportionate body size measurements with noncommunicable diseases like diabetes.
Deranged meda dhatu was associated with Prameha (diabetes).
Evodiamine, a compound isolated from the Evodia rutaecarpa Bentham (Rutaceae), is known to have a potential anti-proliferative activity in human cancer cells.
However, the growth inhibitory activity against lung cancer cells and the underlying molecular mechanisms have been poorly determined.
The present study was designed to examine the anti-proliferative effect of evodiamine in A549 human lung cancer cells.
The extract of Allium cepa Linn is commonly used as adjuvant food for cancer therapy.
We assumed that it includes a potential source of anti-cancer properties.
Linoleic acid is the most abundant polyunsaturated fatty acid in human nutrition and found in most vegetable oils and certain food products.
The mechanisms of cell or organ damage by chronic alcohol consumption are still poorly understood.
Atrophic gastritis is a precancerous condition, which can be diagnosed by several methods.
However, there is no consensus for the standard method.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the correlations among endoscopic, histologic, and serologic findings for the diagnosis of atrophic gastritis.
The prognosis of H. pylori infection-negative gastric cancer (HPIN-GC) has been rarely investigated.
Applying a strict definition of H. pylori status, the prognosis and molecular prognostic markers in HPIN-GC were evaluated.
The objective of this study was to elucidate whether ethanol extract of the marine brown alga Dictyopteris undulata can induce apoptosis, via ER stress, in human colon adenocarcinoma cells.
Cells harboring BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations are hypersensitive to inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1).
We recently showed that interference with PARP-1 activity by NU1025 is strongly cytotoxic for BRCA1-positive BT-20 cells but not BRCA1-deficient SKBr-3 cells.
These unexpected observations prompted speculation that other PARP-1 inhibitor(s) may be more cytotoxic towards SKBr-3 cells.
In addition, interference with the DNA damage signaling pathway via (for instance) Ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase inhibition may induce synthetic lethality in DNA repair-deficient breast cancer cells and pharmacological interference with ATM activity may sensitize breast cancer cells to PARP-1 inactivation.
Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in Korea.
Because colorectal adenoma is a precursor lesion of colorectal cancer, primary prevention of colorectal adenomas may be important for reducing morbidity and mortality from the disease.
The aim of this study was to evaluate H. pylori colonization and subsequent inflammatory responses in the stomachs of C57BL/6 mice depending on inoculation number and the presence of high-salt diet.
Novel dietary agents for colon cancer prevention and therapy are desired.
Kaempferol, a flavonol, has been reported to possess anticancer activity.
However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms of the anticancer effects of kaempferol.
The aim of this study was to determine the inhibitory effect of kaempferol on growth factor-induced proliferation and to elucidate its underlying mechanisms in the HT-29 human colon cancer cell line.
Carnosic acid, which is one of extract components of rosemary, has anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-cancer effects.
However, the anti-cancer effect of carnosic acid in human renal carcinoma cells is unknown.
Allium victorialis var.
platyphyllum is an edible perennial herb and has been used as a vegetable or as a Korean traditional medicine.
Allium species have received much attention owing to their diverse pharmacological properties, including antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer activities.
However, A. victorialis var.
platyphyllum needs more study.
NRP/B, a family member of the BTB/Kelch repeat proteins, is implicated in neuronal and cancer development, as well as the regulation of oxidative stress responses in breast and brain cancer.
Our previous studies indicate that the NRP/B-BTB/POZ domain is involved in the dimerization of NRP/B and in a complex formation with the tumor suppressor, retinoblastoma protein.
Although much evidence supports the potential role of NRP/B as a tumor suppressor, the molecular mechanisms of NRP/B action on E2F transcription factors have not been elucidated.
Extracellular stimulation of cells with growth factors such as epidermal growth factor (EGF) induces cell proliferation and cell transformation.
Although fibroblast growth factor (FGF) is a well-known family member of growth factors and acts as a ligand of FGF receptor (FGFR), a receptor tyrosine kinase, in cytoplasmic membrane, the tumor promoter potential of FGF has not been clearly understood.
Health beneficial effects of blueberry have been well documented.
Obesity is health hazard that is associated with metabolic abnormalities.
We investigated the effect of blueberry leaf extract (BBLE) on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity in C57BL/6J mice.
Seamustard and seatangle are commonly consumed seaweeds in Korea and rich sources of non-digestible polysaccharides which possess biological activities.
However anti-mutagenic and anti-cancer activities of these seaweeds under physiological condition have not been clarified yet.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of seaweeds consumption on azoxymethane (AOM) -induced DNA methylation at N(7) and O(6) position of guanine base, an indicator of DNA damage related to cancer initiation.
The Helicobacter felis (H. felis) mouse model has been developed for the research regarding pathogenesis of chronic gastritis and gastric cancer.
The aim of this study was to investigate long-term H. felis colonization in the stomachs of C57BL/6 mice and subsequent histologic findings and inflammatory reactions including pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Obesity has become epidemic worldwide and 31.0% of Korean adults are obese.
Obesity is the main cause of chronic diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac disease, and cancer.
Surgical goal is to obtain an optimal curve correction in scoliosis surgery.
There are various correction techniques.
This report describes a new technique of global vertebral correction with convex rod rotation.
PEDIATRIC GERM CELL TUMORS (GCT) ARE RARE TUMORS: 80% are benign, 20% malignant (2-3% of all malignant pediatric tumors).
The gonadal sites (ovary and testis) account for 40% of cases.
Represent 30% of GCTs and 70% of neoplastic ovarian masses, being the most common ovarian neoplasms in children and teenagers.
Benign and immature forms (teratomas) constitute about 80% of all ovarian GCTs, malignant forms represent 20% increasing during adolescence.
The most common malignant entity in children is the yolk sac tumors (YST); dysgerminoma is frequent during adolescence and being bilateral in 10% of cases.
Presentation is similar in malignant and benign lesions; abdominal pain (70-80%) and lower abdominal mass are common symptoms.
Evaluation of alpha-fetoprotein (FP) or beta subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) is essential to address the nature of the tumors: Their elevation means presence of malignancy.
Surgery includes intraoperative staging procedures and requires ovariectomy or ovarosalpingectomy for malignant lesions, but may be conservative in selected benign tumors.
Since malignant GCTs are very chemosensitive, primary chemotherapy is recommended in metastatic or locally advanced tumors.
Represent 10% of pediatric GCT, and about 30% of malignant GCT with two age peaks: Children &lt;3 years may experience mature teratoma and malignant GCTs, represented almost exclusively by YST, while adolescents may also show seminomas or other mixed tumors.
The main clinical feature is a painless scrotal mass.
Surgery represents the cornerstone of the management of testicular GCTs, with an inguinal approach and a primary high orchidectomy for malignant tumors, while a testis-sparing surgery can be considered for benign lesions.
A retroperitoneal lymph node (LN) biopsy may be necessary to define the staging when the involvement of retroperitoneal LN is uncertain at imaging investigations.
Inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
The link between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality is well established; however, the association between inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and cardiovascular risk is controversial.
Arterial stiffness is both a marker and risk factor for atherosclerosis.
Epiphrenic diverticula (ED) are infrequent and conventional surgical treatment entails aggressive open or transthoracic surgery.
Minimally invasive treatment has changed the surgical approach but some surgical controversies are not resolved.
The feasibility of the single incision, multiport transumbilical approach(SILC) for the treatment of symptomatic gallbladder calculus disease has been established.
Sparse literature exists on laparoscopic repair of urogenital fistulae (UGF).
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and early experience of this programme.
Two-port mini laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) has been proposed as a safe and feasible technique.
However, there are limited studies to evaluate the effectiveness of the procedure.
This study is a prospective randomised trial to compare the standard four-port LC with two-port mini LC.
TEP inguinal hernia repair is a widely accepted alternative to conventional open technique with several perioperative advantages.
The purpose of this study was to propose a new crosswalk using the resource-based relative value system (RBRVS) that preserves the time unit component of the anesthesia service and disaggregates anesthesia billing into component parts (preoperative evaluation, intraoperative management, and postoperative evaluation).
In total, 1,195 charts of American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) physical status 1 through 5 patients were reviewed.
No direct patient interventions were undertaken.
Effective blood inventory management reduces outdates of blood products.
We designed an automated real-time web-based dashboard interfaced with our laboratory information system to effectively recycle red cell units.
The objective of our approach is to decrease RBC outdate rates within our transfusion service.
Our clinical laboratory implemented capillary electrophoresis using a Sebia() Capillarys-2 (Norcross, GA, USA) instrument for serum and urine protein electrophoresis.
However, the text of the interpretive pathology report was not properly transferred.
To reduce manual effort and possibility for error in text data transfer, we developed scripts in AutoHotkey, a free, open-source macro-creation and automation software utility.
The electronic health record (EHR) provides opportunity to improve health and enhance appropriate test utilization through decision support.
Electronic alerts in the order entry system can guide test use.
Few published reports have assessed the impact of automated alerts on compliance of Pap ordering with published screening guidelines.
Rabies is a fatal zoonotic neglected disease that occurs in more than 150 countries, and kills more than 55.000 people every year.
It is caused by an enveloped single stranded RNA virus that affects the central nervous system, through an infection initiated by the muscular nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, according to many authors.
Alkaloids, such as acetylcholine, are widespread molecules in nature.
They are present in numerous biological fluids, including the skin secretion of many amphibians, in which they act (together with proteins, peptides and steroids) as protection agents against predators and/or microorganisms.
Among those amphibians that are rich in alkaloids, there is the genus Rhinella.
Atrophic scars cause significant patient morbidity.
Whilst there is evidence to guide treatment, there does not appear to be a systematic review to analyse the efficacy of treatment options.
The ability to interpret agents' intent from their actions is a vital skill in successful social interaction.
Prenatal undernutrition in rats leads to increased fat deposition in adulthood.
However, the form of obesity is metabolically distinct from obesity induced through other pathways (e.g.
diet-induced obesity).
Previous rat studies have shown that maternal undernutrition during pregnancy led to insulin hyper-secretion and obesity in offspring, but not to systemic insulin resistance.
Increased muscle and liver glycogen stores indicated that glucose is taken up efficiently, reflecting an active physiological function of these energy storage tissues.
It is increasingly recognised that adipose tissue plays a central role in the regulation of metabolism and pathophysiology of obesity development.
We aimed to identify whether these adipose tissue depots contribute to the altered energy metabolism observed in these offspring.
Numerous studies have evaluated the reliability and validity of the various methods of measuring spinal motion, but the results are inconsistent.
Computer users may be at risk of lateral elbow pain.
It is theorized that adverse mechanical tension can arise in the radial nerve with sustained keyboarding due to sustained static work of the elbow extensor muscles.
Neural mobilization has been suggested as a potential treatment.
Isolated fibrous tumor of the pleura (SFTP - Solitary fibrous tumour of the pleura/localized fibrous tumour of the pleura) is a rare primary tumour of the pleura of mesenchymal origin.
In most cases, it is a benign lesion.
It is composed of spindle cells similar to fibroblasts and derives probably from submesothelial mesenchyme.
The aim of the study was to analyze clinical symptoms, incidence, possibility of suggesting the diagnosis on the basis of imaging tests, and confirmation of the diagnosis in pathological tests with regard to studies of histochemistry examination.
These patients were divided into three groups: those who had subclinical hypothyroidism, a euthyroid state, and clinical hypothyroidism.
Patients were observed for general observational parameters, and an efficacy assessment was performed using SLEDAI, PGA, and SLICC.
However, few studies have examined CAD in PBC.
The increasing use of the transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block, as a form of pain relief after laparoscopic surgery, warrants evaluation of its effectiveness, when compared with other analgesic techniques.
Current guidelines recommend clinical risk scoring systems for the patients diagnosed and determinated treatment strategy with in Non-ST-elevation elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI).
Previous studies demonstrated association between aortic elasticity properties, stiffness and severity CAD.
However, the associations between Aortic stiffness, elasticity properties and clinical risk scores have not been investigated.
Spinal dural arteriovenous fistula (SDAVF) highly threatens people's life and health.
Effective methods for the diagnosis and treatment of the disease are badly needed in clinical application.
The main purpose of this research is to investigate the relationship between the RDW level and postoperative morbidity as well as its stages in diagnosed pancreatic cancer patients.
Apacaries gel is a newly developed material comprised polyphenol from mangosteen extracts and papain mixed in gel preparation.
Regards and Tribute: Late Dr Narender Hasija was a mentor and visionary in the light of knowledge and experience.
We pay our regards with deepest gratitude to the departed soul to rest in peace.
The uses of novel technologies allow more comfort to the patients and ensure a rapid procedure, and LLLT application has shown a positive effect in the prevention of discomfort after invasive procedures.
Food craving refers to an intense desire to consume a specific food.
The Food Cravings Questionnaires (FCQs) assess food cravings on a trait and a state level.
Gaucher disease type III (GD III) is a rare form of GD characterized by neurological involvement and severe systemic disease.
Glycogen storage disease type I (GSD I) is a chronic metabolic disease that requires a lifelong strict dietetic treatment to avoid hypoglycemia and can lead to severe complications during adult age.
Methionine adenosyltransferase I/III (MATI/III) deficiency is the most common genetic cause of persistent isolated hypermethioninemia.
Patients and Methods : This is a retrospective data analysis of 62 newborns with elevated methionine detected by newborn screening between January 2000 and June 2013.
Nephropathic cystinosis is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the CTNS gene, encoding for cystinosin, a carrier protein transporting cystine out of lysosomes.
Whole exome sequencing (WES) offers a powerful diagnostic tool to rapidly and efficiently sequence all coding genes in individuals presenting for consideration of phenotypically and genetically heterogeneous disorders such as suspected mitochondrial disease.
Though mHealth is a popular vehicle for delivering HIV interventions, there are currently no mobile phone apps that target MSM with the specific aim of building an HIV testing plan, and none that focuses on developing a comprehensive prevention plan and link MSM to additional HIV prevention and treatment resources.
Genetic testing has become a standard practice in cancer prevention for high-risk populations.
Heightened consumer awareness of "cancer genes" and genes for other diseases (eg, cardiovascular and Alzheimer's disease), as well as the burgeoning availability of increasingly complex genomic tests (ie, multi-gene, whole-exome and -genome sequencing), has escalated interest in and demand for genetic risk assessment and the specialists who provide it.
Increasing demand is expected to surpass access to genetic specialists.
Thus, there is urgent need to develop effective and efficient models of delivery of genetic information that comparably balance the risks and benefits to the current standard of in-person communication.
Since oocyte donors are typically young and believed to be a source of highly competent gametes, donor oocyte IVF is considered to be an effective treatment for diminished ovarian reserve.
Here, comprehensive chromosomal screening results were reviewed from embryos obtained from anonymous donor-egg IVF cycles to determine both the aneuploidy rate and parental source of the genetic error.
To measure this, preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) data on embryos were retrospectively collated with parental DNA obtained before IVF for chromosome-specific assessments.
This approach permitted mitotic and meiotic copy errors to be differentiated for each chromosome among all embryos tested, thus providing information on the parental source of embryo aneuploidy (i.e., from the anonymous egg donor vs. sperm source).
We studied the motivations for considering labial reduction surgery as recounted on women's online communities and surgery provider's websites.
Premature ejaculation (PE) is one of the most prevalent male sexual problems.
The Premature Ejaculation Diagnostic Tool (PEDT) is a suitable patient-reported outcome measure for the assessment of PE.
In 2009, the International Society for Sexual Medicine (ISSM) convened a select panel of experts to develop an evidence-based set of guidelines for patients suffering from lifelong premature ejaculation (PE).
That document reviewed definitions, etiology, impact on the patient and partner, assessment, and pharmacological, psychological, and combined treatments.
It concluded by recognizing the continually evolving nature of clinical research and recommended a subsequent guideline review and revision every fourth year.
This manuscript updates the previous guidelines and reports on the recommendations of the panel of experts.
The high effectiveness of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5-i) in the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED) has been demonstrated.
However, previous research shows that PDE5-i treatments have high discontinuation rates.
Recently, testosterone (T) has been shown to be associated with premature ejaculation (PE) symptoms in the literature.
Furthermore, studies suggest that the etiology of PE is partly under genetic control.
Less research has been undertaken on sex practices other than penile/vaginal intercourse.
Some healthy males voluntarily seek castration without a recognized medical need.
There are currently no standards of care for these individuals, which cause many of them to obtain surgery outside of a licensed medical setting.
We seek to understand who performs these surgeries.
Research examining sexual dysfunction in bladder cancer survivors is limited, and previous studies have focused on cystectomy patients.
Oncolytic herpes simplex virus (HSV) can replicate in and kill cancer cells while sparing the adjacent normal tissue.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is amongst the most common and lethal cancers, especially in Third World countries.
In this study, the cytotoxicity of a third-generation oncolytic HSV, G47, was investigated in different human HCC cell lines and in an immortalized human hepatic cell line.
Additionally, subcutaneous models of HCC were established to evaluate the in vivo anti-tumor efficacy of G47.
The purpose of this study was to assess students' level of awareness and knowledge about conditions relevant to metabolic syndrome (MetS).
Bezafibrate is mainly used to treat hypertriglyceridemia.
Studies have reported that bezafibrate also improves type 2 diabetes mellitus, but the mechanism has not been fully elucidated.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers' performance for predicting conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still suboptimal.
i.e., how are humans able to maintain a relatively stable representation of objects and features even though the visual system processes many aspects of the world separately and in parallel?
We previously investigated this issue with a variant of the bounce-pass paradigm, which consists of two rectangular bars moving in opposite directions; if the bars are identical and never overlap, the motion could equally be interpreted as bouncing or passing.
Although bars of different colors should be seen as passing each other (since the colors provide more information about the bars' paths), we found "Feature Exchange": observers reported the paradoxical perception that the bars appear to bounce off of each other and exchange colors.
Here we extend our previous findings with three demonstrations.
"Peripheral Feature-Exchange" consists of two colored bars that physically bounce (they continually meet in the middle of the monitor and return to the sides).
When viewed in the periphery, the bars appear to stream past each other even though this percept relies on the exchange of features and contradicts the information provided by the color of the bars.
In "Face-Exchange" two different faces physically pass each other.
In "Face-Go-Round," one face repeatedly moves from left to right on the top of the monitor, and the other from right to left at the bottom of the monitor.
Observers typically perceive the faces moving in a circle-a percept that contradicts information provided by the identity of the faces.
We suggest that Feature Exchange and the paradigms used to elicit it can be useful for the investigation of the binding problem as well as other contemporary issues of interest to vision science.
Mucus transport mediated by motile cilia in the airway is an important defense mechanism for prevention of respiratory infections.
As cilia motility can be depressed by hypothermia or exposure to anesthetics, in this study, we investigated the individual and combined effects of dexmedetomidine (dex), fentanyl (fen), and/or isoflurane (iso) at physiologic and low temperatures on cilia motility in mouse tracheal airway epithelia.
To gain further mechanistic insights by extending previous gene expression data, we constructed co-expression networks in Timothy syndrome (TS), a monogenic condition with high penetrance for ASD, caused by mutations in the L-type calcium channel, Cav1.2.
Researchers have identified that protein pocket regions play critical roles in the interaction of proteins with small molecules, enzymes, and nucleic acid.
As such, investigating the features of somatic mutations in protein pocket regions provides a promising approach to identifying new genotype-phenotype relationships in cancer.
Thoracolumbar spine fractures are common osteoporotic fractures among elderly patients.
Several studies suggest that these fractures can be treated successfully with a nonoperative management.
Relatively few patients have dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry to quantify the magnitude of bone loss as they age.
Recent work correlates mean computed tomography (CT) attenuation in the level I (L1) vertebra with bone mineral density (BMD), making it possible to objectively evaluate the magnitude of bone loss in osteoporosis by this method.
Differing formats of daily trauma operating lists and varying consultant on-call schedules have the potential to affect a trusts ability to successfully meet such demands.
Unfortunately, no simple objective tool exists to assess life expectancy in the postoperative period.
The goal of our study was to analyze 2 simple geriatric life expectancy calculators to compare with the current Veterans Affairs Surgical Quality Improvement Program (VASQIP) postoperative 30-day mortality calculator.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of patient age on clinical and functional outcome following long bone fracture nonunion surgery.
43 118 euros;
However, indirect formulas to calculate glomerular filtration rate are not validated in patients older than 70 years.
We analyzed whether the formula hematocrit, urea, and gender (HUGE) can be used as a prognostic factor.
Little is known about their structural characteristics, and an international definition is lacking.
Current methods to establish the diagnosis of intestinal tuberculosis are inadequate.
Crohn's disease can cause strictures throughout the gastrointestinal tract.
Endoscopic balloon dilatation is a well-established treatment, but recurrence is seen in up to three out of four cases.
Infliximab is playing an increasingly important role in the modern systemic treatment of severe Crohn's disease.
Combining the anti-inflammatory effects of infliximab with the proven effect of endoscopic balloon dilatation could possibly improve outcome.
In small studies, intralesional injections in perianal fistulas have been effective and endoscopic injection therapy in colonic strictures is feasible.
Nationally, HIV incidence is rising rapidly among young (18-24years old) men who have sex with men (YMSM).
Knowledge of safer sex generally enhances self-efficacy for safer sex, an important predictor of safer-sex behaviors.
Recent findings suggest that a strong negative social emotion (i.e., shame) increases YMSM's sexual risk-taking.
Unchangeable shame (e.g., desire for other men) might undermine (moderate) the link between knowledge and self-efficacy or between self-efficacy and unprotected anal intercourse (UAI): this may be less likely for changeable shame (e.g., shame about risky sexual behavior).
Although hepatitis is frequently observed during antituberculosis (anti-TB) therapy, acute viral hepatitis should be ruled out first, especially in the endemic areas.
Hepatic damage due to chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1b infection varies widely.
Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), a public health problem, is an enveloped, single-stranded RNA virus and a member of the Hepacivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family.
Liver cancer, cirrhosis, and end-stage liver are the outcomes of chronic infection with HCV.
HCV isolates show significant heterogeneity in genetics around the world.
Therefore, determining HCV genotypes is a vital step in determining prognosis and planning therapeutic strategies.
Across Europe, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is considered to be the primary cause of nosocomial pneumonia (NP).
In Germany alone, approximately 14,000 cases of MRSA-associated NP occur annually, which may have a significant impact on health care resource use and associated economic costs.
Several dermoscopic findings in alopecia areata (AA) are characteristic and aid in the diagnosis of this disease.
Studies evaluating the clinical significance of these findings in AA in dark-skinned individuals are sparse.
Trichotillomania (TTM) is characterized by patchy alopecia of hair bearing areas.
This is because of compulsive urge to pull the hair.
Scalp is the most common site for pulling hair.
Usually, patients may have only small areas of baldness, in severe forms, tonsure pattern of baldness is observed.
Diagnosis is by history and clinical examination.
Here, authors observed trichoscopic patterns and evaluated their importance in the diagnosis of TTM.
Hair restoration surgery (HRS) is a very promising and sought after aesthetic procedure with very few complications.
Complications may occur in the donor or the recipient area, and it may be due to surgical or idiopathic causes.
Common neurological syndrome (migraine without aura) is more common among women than men.
Menstruation is known to be a powerful trigger for migraine, and so is stress, but the presentation of headache is similar in both.
Also, women are more vulnerable to stress as well as migraine, and this makes a complex relationship of menstruation, stress, and migraine.
Thirty, healthy primiparous Holstein cows were infused (h = 0) with ~20-40 cfu of live E. coli into one front mammary quarter at ~4-6 wk in lactation.
Daily feed intake and milk yield were recorded.
A generalized linear mixed model was used to determine the effect of IMI challenge on metabolic responses of cows during early lactation.
EGFR expression and pathway activation are common in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC).
However, anti-EGFR therapies have not been effective in these patients.
We aimed to study the efficacy of targeting MET in overcoming resistance to EGFR therapy in TNBC cell lines.
IBC cells invade and metastasize through dermal lymphatic vessels; however, it is unknown how lymphatic drainage patterns change during IBC growth and metastasis.
Herein, we non-invasively and longitudinally imaged lymphatics in an animal model of IBC using near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF) imaging.
Due to limited access to subscriber contact information, it has been a challenge to evaluate the program.
Currently treatment of IH with beta blockers is mainly reserved for expert centers, where wait times are lengthening.
An eHealth intervention, Hemangioma Treatment Plan (HTP), was developed to treat IH in regional hospitals with online support from an academic doctor.
Pseudomonas luteola is an uncommon opportunistic pathogen.
It is recognized as an uncommon cause of infections in underlying medical disorders.
Infections caused by this microorganism are health care associated.
Leishmaniasis is one of the six most common parasitic infections in the tropical regions.
Therefore, evaluation of other therapeutic modalities is performed extensively.
Plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance genes (PMQR) have been shown to play not only an important role in quinolone resistance, but also resistance to other antibiotics, particularly -lactams and aminoglycosides.
These genes are mainly associated with clinical isolates of Enterobacteriaceae.
These toxins may be teratogenic, mutagenic, hepatotoxic, nephrotoxic, and may have immunosuppressive effects and pose a serious health problems to exposed humans and animals.
Therefore, primary prevention of HEV infection is essential.
Aeromonas hydrophila cause one of the most important diseases in fishes and lead to economic losses, and may be contaminated human beings.
In endodontics, the elimination of resistant bacteria such as Enterococcus faecalis plays an important role for treatment success in root canals.
Therefore, new alternative irrigants (instead of sodium hypochlorite) have been researched to achieve ideal endodontic treatment.
Leptospirosis as an emerging infectious disease is considered as an important public health problem worldwide.
Toxoplasmosis is a parasitic disease caused by the protozoan Toxoplasma gondii.
This parasite infects most of warm-blooded animals, including birds.
Turkeys are one of these animals which might be infected by this parasite.
Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1) resistance to drugs and the side effects of drugs have drawn the attention of investigators to herbal plants.
Accurate and rapid diagnosis of bacterial arthritis is not always possible in unvaccinated (Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae type B) children in Iran.
Diabetes mellitus (along with its complications) has become a global problem.
Diabetic foot infection, among the most common complications, is responsible for 40 to 50% of foot amputations.
Antibiotic-resistant microorganisms, however, have compromised empiric therapy in the infected patients.
Anaerobic-inducible promoters are alternatives of chemical-inducible promoters for expression of recombinant proteins especially in conditions where chemical induction is not possible or anaerobic conditions are preferable.
The nirB promoter is the promoter of the first gene of nir operon in Escherichia coli, which encodes NADH-dependent nitrite reductase.
This promoter is naturally induced under anaerobic conditions and upregulated by nitrite and nitrate.
Today, significant increase in the prevalence and emergence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a serious public health concern and is likely to have a dramatic negative impact on many current medical practices.
The ability of Candida albicans to form biofilms and adhere to host tissues and biomaterial surfaces is an important factor in its pathogenesis.
Bispectral index (BIS) monitoring reduces the cases of intraoperative awareness.
Sonographic measurement of optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD) is a non-invasive method of evaluating increased intracranial pressure at the bedside.
We expected that dexmedetomidine would compensate for the problems arising from spinal anesthesia alone.
Rapid fluid warming has been a cardinal measure to maintain normothermia during fluid resuscitation of hypovolemic patients.
We tested whether the simulation-based result is translated into the clinical liver transplantation.
Inter-observer and intra-observer variation in histologic tumor grading are well documented.
The pathogenesis of radiation-induced sarcomas (RISs) is not well known.
In RIS, TP53 mutations are frequent, but little is known about Mdm2-p53 interaction, which is a recent therapeutic target of sarcomas.
Inevitable loss of diagnostic material should be minimized during cell block preparation.
We introduce a modified agarose cell block technique that enables the synthesis of compact cell blocks by using the entirety of a cell pellet without the loss of diagnostic material during cell block preparations.
The feasibility of this technique is illustrated by high-throughput immunocytochemistry using high-density cell block microarray (CMA).
Double-strand DNA breaks (DSBs) are a key factor in carcinogenesis.
The necessary repair of DSBs is pivotal in maintaining normal cell division.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a progressive loss of renal function over a period of time.
It is common, often unrecognized, and frequently coexists with other conditions, including diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
There has been little research undertaken into treatment options and decision-making processes of CKD patients in general.
Allergen immunotherapy (AIT) is the practice of administering gradually increasing quantities of an allergen extract to an allergic subject to ameliorate the symptoms associated with the subsequent exposure to the causative allergen.
It is the only treatment that may alter the natural course of allergic diseases.
According to AIT guidelines and summary of product characteristics (SmPCs), the treatment should be carried out for at least 3 years.
It is controversially discussed whether subcutaneous or sublingual administration routes cause higher patients' compliance.
This cross-sectional survey aimed to identify factors that determined their job performance and to record their expressed needs to support HP-RM&amp;S operation.
In this study, job performance was defined as completion of all 15 activities.
The objective of our research was to evaluate the efficacy of inhaled tiotropium bromide in TB destroyed lung.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is particularly associated with progressive and ultimately chronic recurrent respiratory infections in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bronchiectasis, chronic destroyed lung disease, and cystic fibrosis.
Its treatment is also very complex because of drug resistance and recurrence.
